

Once upon a time there was a woman, and she baked five pies. And when
they came out of the oven, they were that overbaked the crusts were too
hard to eat. So she says to her daughter:

"Darter," says she, "put you them there pies on the shelf, and leave 'em
there a little, and they'll come again."--She meant, you know, the crust
would get soft.

But the girl, she says to herself: "Well, if they'll come again, I'll
eat 'em now." And she set to work and ate 'em all, first and last.

Well, come supper-time the woman said: "Go you, and get one o' them
there pies. I dare say they've come again now."

The girl went and she looked, and there was nothing but the dishes. So
back she came and says she: "Noo, they ain't come again."

"Not one of 'em?" says the mother.

"Not one of 'em," says she.

"Well, come again, or not come again," said the woman "I'll have one for
supper."

"But you can't, if they ain't come," said the girl.

"But I can," says she. "Go you, and bring the best of 'em."

"Best or worst," says the girl, "I've ate 'em all, and you can't have
one till that's come again."

Well, the woman she was done, and she took her spinning to the door to
spin, and as she span she sang:

  "My darter ha' ate five, five pies to-day.
  My darter ha' ate five, five pies to-day."

The king was coming down the street, and he heard her sing, but what she
sang he couldn't hear, so he stopped and said:

"What was that you were singing, my good woman?"

The woman was ashamed to let him hear what her daughter had been doing,
so she sang, instead of that:

  "My darter ha' spun five, five skeins to-day.
  My darter ha' spun five, five skeins to-day."

"Stars o' mine!" said the king, "I never heard tell of any one that
could do that."

Then he said: "Look you here, I want a wife, and I'll marry your
daughter. But look you here," says he, "eleven months out of the year
she shall have all she likes to eat, and all the gowns she likes to get,
and all the company she likes to keep; but the last month of the year
she'll have to spin five skeins every day, and if she don't I shall kill
her."

"All right," says the woman; for she thought what a grand marriage that
was. And as for the five skeins, when the time came, there'd be plenty
of ways of getting out of it, and likeliest, he'd have forgotten all
about it.

Well, so they were married. And for eleven months the girl had all she
liked to eat, and all the gowns she liked to get, and all the company
she liked to keep.

But when the time was getting over, she began to think about the skeins
and to wonder if he had 'em in mind. But not one word did he say about
'em, and she thought he'd wholly forgotten 'em.

However, the last day of the last month he takes her to a room she'd
never set eyes on before. There was nothing in it but a spinning-wheel
and a stool. And says he: "Now, my dear, here you'll be shut in
to-morrow with some victuals and some flax, and if you haven't spun five
skeins by the night, your head'll go off."

And away he went about his business.

Well, she was that frightened, she'd always been such a gatless girl,
that she didn't so much as know how to spin, and what was she to do
to-morrow with no one to come nigh her to help her? She sat down on a
stool in the kitchen, and law! how she did cry!

However, all of a sudden she heard a sort of a knocking low down on the
door. She upped and oped it, and what should she see but a small little
black thing with a long tail. That looked up at her right curious, and
that said:

"What are you a-crying for?"

"What's that to you?" says she.

"Never you mind," that said, "but tell me what you're a-crying for."

"That won't do me no good if I do," says she.

"You don't know that," that said, and twirled that's tail round.

"Well," says she, "that won't do no harm, if that don't do no good," and
she upped and told about the pies, and the skeins, and everything.

"This is what I'll do," says the little black thing, "I'll come to your
window every morning and take the flax and bring it spun at night."

"What's your pay?" says she.

That looked out of the corner of that's eyes, and that said: "I'll
give you three guesses every night to guess my name, and if you haven't
guessed it before the month's up you shall be mine."

Well, she thought she'd be sure to guess that's name before the month
was up. "All right," says she, "I agree."

"All right," that says, and law! how that twirled that's tail.

Well, the next day, her husband took her into the room, and there was
the flax and the day's food.

"Now there's the flax," says he, "and if that ain't spun up this night,
off goes your head." And then he went out and locked the door.

He'd hardly gone, when there was a knocking against the window.

She upped and she oped it, and there sure enough was the little old
thing sitting on the ledge.

"Where's the flax?" says he.

"Here it be," says she. And she gave it to him.

Well, come the evening a knocking came again to the window. She upped
and she oped it, and there was the little old thing with five skeins of
flax on his arm.

"Here it be," says he, and he gave it to her.

"Now, what's my name?" says he.

"What, is that Bill?" says she.

"Noo, that ain't," says he, and he twirled his tail.

"Is that Ned?" says she.

"Noo, that ain't," says he, and he twirled his tail.

"Well, is that Mark?" says she.

"Noo, that ain't," says he, and he twirled his tail harder, and away he
flew.

Well, when her husband came in, there were the five skeins ready for
him. "I see I shan't have to kill you to-night, my dear," says he;
"you'll have your food and your flax in the morning," says he, and away
he goes.

Well, every day the flax and the food were brought, and every day that
there little black impet used to come mornings and evenings. And all the
day the girl sat trying to think of names to say to it when it came at
night. But she never hit on the right one. And as it got towards the
end of the month, the impet began to look so maliceful, and that twirled
that's tail faster and faster each time she gave a guess.

At last it came to the last day but one. The impet came at night along
with the five skeins, and that said,

"What, ain't you got my name yet?"

"Is that Nicodemus?" says she.

"Noo, t'ain't," that says.

"Is that Sammle?" says she.

"Noo, t'ain't," that says.

"A-well, is that Methusalem?" says she.

"Noo, t'ain't that neither," that says.

Then that looks at her with that's eyes like a coal o' fire, and that
says: "Woman, there's only to-morrow night, and then you'll be mine!"
And away it flew.

Well, she felt that horrid. However, she heard the king coming along the
passage. In he came, and when he sees the five skeins, he says, says he,

"Well, my dear," says he, "I don't see but what you'll have your skeins
ready to-morrow night as well, and as I reckon I shan't have to kill
you, I'll have supper in here to-night." So they brought supper, and
another stool for him, and down the two sat.

Well, he hadn't eaten but a mouthful or so, when he stops and begins to
laugh.

"What is it?" says she.

"A-why," says he, "I was out a-hunting to-day, and I got away to a place
in the wood I'd never seen before And there was an old chalk-pit. And I
heard a kind of a sort of a humming. So I got off my hobby, and I went
right quiet to the pit, and I looked down. Well, what should there be
but the funniest little black thing you ever set eyes on. And what was
that doing, but that had a little spinning-wheel, and that was spinning
wonderful fast, and twirling that's tail. And as that span that sang:

  "Nimmy nimmy not
  My name's Tom Tit Tot."

Well, when the girl heard this, she felt as if she could have jumped out
of her skin for joy, but she didn't say a word.

Next day that there little thing looked so maliceful when he came for
the flax. And when night came, she heard that knocking against the
window panes. She oped the window, and that come right in on the ledge.
That was grinning from ear to ear, and Oo! that's tail was twirling
round so fast.

"What's my name?" that says, as that gave her the skeins.

"Is that Solomon?" she says, pretending to be afeard.

"Noo, t'ain't," that says, and that came further into the room.

"Well, is that Zebedee?" says she again.

"Noo, t'ain't," says the impet. And then that laughed and twirled that's
tail till you couldn't hardly see it.

"Take time, woman," that says; "next guess, and you're mine." And that
stretched out that's black hands at her.

Well, she backed a step or two, and she looked at it, and then she
laughed out, and says she, pointing her finger at it:

"NIMMY NIMMY NOT, YOUR NAME'S TOM TIT TOT!"

Well, when that heard her, that gave an awful shriek and away that flew
into the dark, and she never saw it any more.




THE THREE SILLIES

Once upon a time there was a farmer and his wife who had one daughter,
and she was courted by a gentleman. Every evening he used to come and
see her, and stop to supper at the farmhouse, and the daughter used to
be sent down into the cellar to draw the beer for supper. So one evening
she had gone down to draw the beer, and she happened to look up at the
ceiling while she was drawing, and she saw a mallet stuck in one of the
beams. It must have been there a long, long time, but somehow or other
she had never noticed it before, and she began a-thinking. And she
thought it was very dangerous to have that mallet there, for she said
to herself: "Suppose him and me was to be married, and we was to have a
son, and he was to grow up to be a man, and come down into the cellar to
draw the beer, like as I'm doing now, and the mallet was to fall on his
head and kill him, what a dreadful thing it would be!" And she put down
the candle and the jug, and sat herself down and began a-crying.

Well, they began to wonder upstairs how it was that she was so long
drawing the beer, and her mother went down to see after her, and she
found her sitting on the settle crying, and the beer running over the
floor. "Why, whatever is the matter?" said her mother. "Oh, mother!"
says she, "look at that horrid mallet! Suppose we was to be married, and
was to have a son, and he was to grow up, and was to come down to the
cellar to draw the beer, and the mallet was to fall on his head and kill
him, what a dreadful thing it would be!" "Dear, dear! what a dreadful
thing it would be!" said the mother, and she sat her down aside of the
daughter and started a-crying too. Then after a bit the father began to
wonder that they didn't come back, and he went down into the cellar to
look after them himself, and there they two sat a-crying, and the beer
running all over the floor. "Whatever is the matter?" says he. "Why,"
says the mother, "look at that horrid mallet. Just suppose, if our
daughter and her sweetheart was to be married, and was to have a son,
and he was to grow up, and was to come down into the cellar to draw
the beer, and the mallet was to fall on his head and kill him, what a
dreadful thing it would be!" "Dear, dear, dear! so it would!" said the
father, and he sat himself down aside of the other two, and started
a-crying.

Now the gentleman got tired of stopping up in the kitchen by himself,
and at last he went down into the cellar too, to see what they were
after; and there they three sat a-crying side by side, and the beer
running all over the floor. And he ran straight and turned the tap.
Then he said: "Whatever are you three doing, sitting there crying, and
letting the beer run all over the floor?"

"Oh!" says the father, "look at that horrid mallet! Suppose you and our
daughter was to be married, and was to have a son, and he was to grow
up, and was to come down into the cellar to draw the beer, and the
mallet was to fall on his head and kill him!" And then they all started
a-crying worse than before. But the gentleman burst out a-laughing, and
reached up and pulled out the mallet, and then he said: "I've travelled
many miles, and I never met three such big sillies as you three before;
and now I shall start out on my travels again, and when I can find
three bigger sillies than you three, then I'll come back and marry your
daughter." So he wished them good-bye, and started off on his travels,
and left them all crying because the girl had lost her sweetheart.

Well, he set out, and he travelled a long way, and at last he came to a
woman's cottage that had some grass growing on the roof. And the woman
was trying to get her cow to go up a ladder to the grass, and the poor
thing durst not go. So the gentleman asked the woman what she was doing.
"Why, lookye," she said, "look at all that beautiful grass. I'm going to
get the cow on to the roof to eat it. She'll be quite safe, for I shall
tie a string round her neck, and pass it down the chimney, and tie it
to my wrist as I go about the house, so she can't fall off without my
knowing it." "Oh, you poor silly!" said the gentleman, "you should cut
the grass and throw it down to the cow!" But the woman thought it was
easier to get the cow up the ladder than to get the grass down, so she
pushed her and coaxed her and got her up, and tied a string round her
neck, and passed it down the chimney, and fastened it to her own wrist.
And the gentleman went on his way, but he hadn't gone far when the cow
tumbled off the roof, and hung by the string tied round her neck, and
it strangled her. And the weight of the cow tied to her wrist pulled the
woman up the chimney, and she stuck fast half-way and was smothered in
the soot.

Well, that was one big silly.

And the gentleman went on and on, and he went to an inn to stop the
night, and they were so full at the inn that they had to put him in a
double-bedded room, and another traveller was to sleep in the other bed.
The other man was a very pleasant fellow, and they got very friendly
together; but in the morning, when they were both getting up, the
gentleman was surprised to see the other hang his trousers on the knobs
of the chest of drawers and run across the room and try to jump into
them, and he tried over and over again, and couldn't manage it; and the
gentleman wondered whatever he was doing it for. At last he stopped and
wiped his face with his handkerchief. "Oh dear," he says, "I do think
trousers are the most awkwardest kind of clothes that ever were. I can't
think who could have invented such things. It takes me the best part
of an hour to get into mine every morning, and I get so hot! How do you
manage yours?" So the gentleman burst out a-laughing, and showed him how
to put them on; and he was very much obliged to him, and said he never
should have thought of doing it that way.

So that was another big silly.

Then the gentleman went on his travels again; and he came to a village,
and outside the village there was a pond, and round the pond was a crowd
of people. And they had got rakes, and brooms, and pitchforks, reaching
into the pond; and the gentleman asked what was the matter. "Why," they
say, "matter enough! Moon's tumbled into the pond, and we can't rake
her out anyhow!" So the gentleman burst out a-laughing, and told them to
look up into the sky, and that it was only the shadow in the water. But
they wouldn't listen to him, and abused him shamefully, and he got away
as quick as he could.

So there was a whole lot of sillies bigger than them three sillies at
home. So the gentleman turned back home again and married the farmer's
daughter, and if they didn't live happy for ever after, that's nothing
to do with you or me.




THE ROSE-TREE

There was once upon a time a good man who had two children: a girl by a
first wife, and a boy by the second. The girl was as white as milk, and
her lips were like cherries. Her hair was like golden silk, and it hung
to the ground. Her brother loved her dearly, but her wicked stepmother
hated her. "Child," said the stepmother one day, "go to the grocer's
shop and buy me a pound of candles." She gave her the money; and the
little girl went, bought the candles, and started on her return. There
was a stile to cross. She put down the candles whilst she got over the
stile. Up came a dog and ran off with the candles.

She went back to the grocer's, and she got a second bunch. She came to
the stile, set down the candles, and proceeded to climb over. Up came
the dog and ran off with the candles.

She went again to the grocer's, and she got a third bunch; and just the
same happened. Then she came to her stepmother crying, for she had spent
all the money and had lost three bunches of candles.

The stepmother was angry, but she pretended not to mind the loss. She
said to the child: "Come, lay your head on my lap that I may comb your
hair." So the little one laid her head in the woman's lap, who proceeded
to comb the yellow silken hair. And when she combed the hair fell over
her knees, and rolled right down to the ground.

Then the stepmother hated her more for the beauty of her hair; so she
said to her, "I cannot part your hair on my knee, fetch a billet of
wood." So she fetched it. Then said the stepmother, "I cannot part your
hair with a comb, fetch me an axe." So she fetched it.

"Now," said the wicked woman, "lay your head down on the billet whilst I
part your hair."

Well! she laid down her little golden head without fear; and whist! down
came the axe, and it was off. So the mother wiped the axe and laughed.

Then she took the heart and liver of the little girl, and she stewed
them and brought them into the house for supper. The husband tasted them
and shook his head. He said they tasted very strangely. She gave some
to the little boy, but he would not eat. She tried to force him, but he
refused, and ran out into the garden, and took up his little sister, and
put her in a box, and buried the box under a rose-tree; and every day he
went to the tree and wept, till his tears ran down on the box.

One day the rose-tree flowered. It was spring, and there among the
flowers was a white bird; and it sang, and sang, and sang like an
angel out of heaven. Away it flew, and it went to a cobbler's shop, and
perched itself on a tree hard by; and thus it sang,

  "My wicked mother slew me,
  My dear father ate me,
  My little brother whom I love
  Sits below, and I sing above
    Stick, stock, stone dead."

"Sing again that beautiful song," asked the shoemaker. "If you will
first give me those little red shoes you are making." The cobbler gave
the shoes, and the bird sang the song; then flew to a tree in front of a
watchmaker's, and sang:

  "My wicked mother slew me,
  My dear father ate me,
  My little brother whom I love
  Sits below, and I sing above
    Stick, stock, stone dead."

"Oh, the beautiful song! sing it again, sweet bird," asked the
watchmaker. "If you will give me first that gold watch and chain in your
hand." The jeweller gave the watch and chain. The bird took it in one
foot, the shoes in the other, and, after having repeated the song, flew
away to where three millers were picking a millstone. The bird perched
on a tree and sang:

  "My wicked mother slew me,
  My dear father ate me,
  My little brother whom I love
  Sits below, and I sing above
    Stick!"

Then one of the men put down his tool and looked up from his work,

  "Stock!"

Then the second miller's man laid aside his tool and looked up,

  "Stone!"

Then the third miller's man laid down his tool and looked up,

  "Dead!"

Then all three cried out with one voice: "Oh, what a beautiful song!
Sing it, sweet bird, again." "If you will put the millstone round my
neck," said the bird. The men did what the bird wanted and away to the
tree it flew with the millstone round its neck, the red shoes in one
foot, and the gold watch and chain in the other. It sang the song and
then flew home. It rattled the millstone against the eaves of the house,
and the stepmother said: "It thunders." Then the little boy ran out to
see the thunder, and down dropped the red shoes at his feet. It
rattled the millstone against the eaves of the house once more, and the
stepmother said again: "It thunders." Then the father ran out and down
fell the chain about his neck.

In ran father and son, laughing and saying, "See, what fine things the
thunder has brought us!" Then the bird rattled the millstone against the
eaves of the house a third time; and the stepmother said: "It thunders
again, perhaps the thunder has brought something for me," and she
ran out; but the moment she stepped outside the door, down fell the
millstone on her head; and so she died.




THE OLD WOMAN AND HER PIG

An old woman was sweeping her house, and she found a little crooked
sixpence. "What," said she, "shall I do with this little sixpence? I
will go to market, and buy a little pig."

As she was coming home, she came to a stile: but the piggy wouldn't go
over the stile.

She went a little further, and she met a dog. So she said to the dog:
"Dog! bite pig; piggy won't go over the stile; and I shan't get home
to-night." But the dog wouldn't.

She went a little further, and she met a stick. So she said: "Stick!
stick! beat dog! dog won't bite pig; piggy won't get over the stile; and
I shan't get home to-night." But the stick wouldn't.

She went a little further, and she met a fire. So she said: "Fire! fire!
burn stick; stick won't beat dog; dog won't bite pig; piggy won't get
over the stile; and I shan't get home to-night." But the fire wouldn't.

She went a little further, and she met some water. So she said: "Water,
water! quench fire; fire won't burn stick; stick won't beat dog; dog
won't bite pig; piggy won't get over the stile; and I shan't get home
to-night." But the water wouldn't.

She went a little further, and she met an ox. So she said: "Ox! ox!
drink water; water won't quench fire; fire won't burn stick; stick won't
beat dog; dog won't bite pig; piggy won't get over the stile; and I
shan't get home to-night." But the ox wouldn't.

She went a little further, and she met a butcher. So she said: "Butcher!
butcher! kill ox; ox won't drink water; water won't quench fire; fire
won't burn stick; stick won't beat dog; dog won't bite pig; piggy won't
get over the stile; and I shan't get home to-night." But the butcher
wouldn't.

She went a little further, and she met a rope. So she said: "Rope! rope!
hang butcher; butcher won't kill ox; ox won't drink water; water won't
quench fire; fire won't burn stick; stick won't beat dog; dog won't bite
pig; piggy won't get over the stile; and I shan't get home to-night."
But the rope wouldn't.

She went a little further, and she met a rat. So she said: "Rat! rat!
gnaw rope; rope won't hang butcher; butcher won't kill ox; ox won't
drink water; water won't quench fire; fire won't burn stick; stick won't
beat dog; dog won't bite pig; piggy won't get over the stile; and I
shan't get home to-night." But the rat wouldn't.

She went a little further, and she met a cat. So she said: "Cat! cat!
kill rat; rat won't gnaw rope; rope won't hang butcher; butcher won't
kill ox; ox won't drink water; water won't quench fire; fire won't burn
stick; stick won't beat dog; dog won't bite pig; piggy won't get over
the stile; and I shan't get home to-night." But the cat said to her, "If
you will go to yonder cow, and fetch me a saucer of milk, I will kill
the rat." So away went the old woman to the cow.

But the cow said to her: "If you will go to yonder hay-stack, and fetch
me a handful of hay, I'll give you the milk." So away went the old woman
to the haystack and she brought the hay to the cow.

As soon as the cow had eaten the hay, she gave the old woman the milk;
and away she went with it in a saucer to the cat.

As soon as the cat had lapped up the milk, the cat began to kill the
rat; the rat began to gnaw the rope; the rope began to hang the butcher;
the butcher began to kill the ox; the ox began to drink the water; the
water began to quench the fire; the fire began to burn the stick; the
stick began to beat the dog; the dog began to bite the pig; the little
pig in a fright jumped over the stile, and so the old woman got home
that night.




HOW JACK WENT TO SEEK HIS FORTUNE

Once on a time there was a boy named Jack, and one morning he started to
go and seek his fortune.

He hadn't gone very far before he met a cat.

"Where are you going, Jack?" said the cat.

"I am going to seek my fortune."

"May I go with you?"

"Yes," said Jack, "the more the merrier."

So on they went, jiggelty-jolt, jiggelty-jolt.

They went a little further and they met a dog.

"Where are you going, Jack?" said the dog.

"I am going to seek my fortune."

"May I go with you?"

"Yes," said Jack, "the more the merrier."

So on they went, jiggelty-jolt, jiggelty-jolt. They went a little
further and they met a goat.

"Where are you going, Jack?" said the goat.

"I am going to seek my fortune."

"May I go with you?"

"Yes," said Jack, "the more the merrier."

So on they went, jiggelty-jolt, jiggelty-jolt.

They went a little further and they met a bull.

"Where are you going, Jack?" said the bull.

"I am going to seek my fortune."

"May I go with you?"

"Yes," said Jack, "the more the merrier."

So on they went, jiggelty-jolt, jiggelty-jolt.

They went a little further and they met a rooster.

"Where are you going, Jack?" said the rooster.

"I am going to seek my fortune."

"May I go with you?"

"Yes," said Jack, "the more the merrier."

So on they went, jiggelty-jolt, jiggelty-jolt.

Well, they went on till it was about dark, and they began to think of
some place where they could spend the night. About this time they came
in sight of a house, and Jack told them to keep still while he went up
and looked in through the window. And there were some robbers counting
over their money. Then Jack went back and told them to wait till he gave
the word, and then to make all the noise they could. So when they were
all ready Jack gave the word, and the cat mewed, and the dog barked, and
the goat bleated, and the bull bellowed, and the rooster crowed, and all
together they made such a dreadful noise that it frightened the robbers
all away.

And then they went in and took possession of the house. Jack was afraid
the robbers would come back in the night, and so when it came time to go
to bed he put the cat in the rocking-chair, and he put the dog under the
table, and he put the goat upstairs, and he put the bull down cellar,
and the rooster flew up on to the roof, and Jack went to bed.

By-and-by the robbers saw it was all dark and they sent one man back to
the house to look after their money. Before long he came back in a great
fright and told them his story.

"I went back to the house," said he, "and went in and tried to sit down
in the rocking-chair, and there was an old woman knitting, and she stuck
her knitting-needles into me." That was the cat, you know.

"I went to the table to look after the money and there was a shoemaker
under the table, and he stuck his awl into me." That was the dog, you
know.

"I started to go upstairs, and there was a man up there threshing, and
he knocked me down with his flail." That was the goat, you know.

"I started to go down cellar, and there was a man down there chopping
wood, and he knocked me up with his axe." That was the bull, you know.

"But I shouldn't have minded all that if it hadn't been for that little
fellow on top of the house, who kept a-hollering, 'Chuck him up to me-e!
Chuck him up to me-e!'" Of course that was the cock-a-doodle-do.




MR. VINEGAR

Mr. and Mrs. Vinegar lived in a vinegar bottle. Now, one day, when Mr.
Vinegar was from home, Mrs. Vinegar, who was a very good housewife, was
busily sweeping her house, when an unlucky thump of the broom brought
the whole house clitter-clatter, clitter-clatter, about her ears. In an
agony of grief she rushed forth to meet her husband.

On seeing him she exclaimed, "Oh, Mr. Vinegar, Mr. Vinegar, we are
ruined, I have knocked the house down, and it is all to pieces!" Mr.
Vinegar then said: "My dear, let us see what can be done. Here is
the door; I will take it on my back, and we will go forth to seek our
fortune."

They walked all that day, and at nightfall entered a thick forest. They
were both very, very tired, and Mr. Vinegar said: "My love, I will climb
up into a tree, drag up the door, and you shall follow." He accordingly
did so, and they both stretched their weary limbs on the door, and fell
fast asleep.

In the middle of the night Mr. Vinegar was disturbed by the sound of
voices underneath, and to his horror and dismay found that it was a band
of thieves met to divide their booty.

"Here, Jack," said one, "here's five pounds for you; here, Bill, here's
ten pounds for you; here, Bob, here's three pounds for you."

Mr. Vinegar could listen no longer; his terror was so great that he
trembled and trembled, and shook down the door on their heads. Away
scampered the thieves, but Mr. Vinegar dared not quit his retreat till
broad daylight.

He then scrambled out of the tree, and went to lift up the door. What
did he see but a number of golden guineas. "Come down, Mrs. Vinegar," he
cried; "come down, I say; our fortune's made, our fortune's made! Come
down, I say."

Mrs. Vinegar got down as fast as she could, and when she saw the money
she jumped for joy. "Now, my dear," said she, "I'll tell you what you
shall do. There is a fair at the neighbouring town; you shall take these
forty guineas and buy a cow. I can make butter and cheese, which
you shall sell at market, and we shall then be able to live very
comfortably."

Mr. Vinegar joyfully agrees, takes the money, and off he goes to the
fair. When he arrived, he walked up and down, and at length saw a
beautiful red cow. It was an excellent milker, and perfect in every
way. "Oh," thought Mr. Vinegar, "if I had but that cow, I should be the
happiest, man alive."

So he offers the forty guineas for the cow, and the owner said that, as
he was a friend, he'd oblige him. So the bargain was made, and he got
the cow and he drove it backwards and forwards to show it.

By-and-by he saw a man playing the bagpipes--Tweedle-dum tweedle-dee.
The children followed him about, and he appeared to be pocketing money
on all sides. "Well," thought Mr. Vinegar, "if I had but that beautiful
instrument I should be the happiest man alive--my fortune would be
made."

So he went up to the man. "Friend," says he, "what a beautiful
instrument that is, and what a deal of money you must make." "Why, yes,"
said the man, "I make a great deal of money, to be sure, and it is a
wonderful instrument." "Oh!" cried Mr. Vinegar, "how I should like to
possess it!" "Well," said the man, "as you are a friend, I don't much
mind parting with it; you shall have it for that red cow." "Done!" said
the delighted Mr. Vinegar. So the beautiful red cow was given for the
bagpipes.

He walked up and down with his purchase; but it was in vain he tried
to play a tune, and instead of pocketing pence, the boys followed him
hooting, laughing, and pelting.

Poor Mr. Vinegar, his fingers grew very cold, and, just as he was
leaving the town, he met a man with a fine thick pair of gloves. "Oh,
my fingers are so very cold," said Mr. Vinegar to himself. "Now if I had
but those beautiful gloves I should be the happiest man alive." He went
up to the man, and said to him, "Friend, you seem to have a capital pair
of gloves there." "Yes, truly," cried the man; "and my hands are as warm
as possible this cold November day." "Well," said Mr. Vinegar, "I should
like to have them.". "What will you give?" said the man; "as you are
a friend, I don't much mind letting you have them for those bagpipes."
"Done!" cried Mr. Vinegar. He put on the gloves, and felt perfectly
happy as he trudged homewards.

At last he grew very tired, when he saw a man coming towards him with a
good stout stick in his hand.

"Oh," said Mr. Vinegar, "that I had but that stick! I should then be the
happiest man alive." He said to the man: "Friend! what a rare good stick
you have got." "Yes," said the man; "I have used it for many a long
mile, and a good friend it has been; but if you have a fancy for it,
as you are a friend, I don't mind giving it to you for that pair of
gloves." Mr. Vinegar's hands were so warm, and his legs so tired, that
he gladly made the exchange.

As he drew near to the wood where he had left his wife, he heard a
parrot on a tree calling out his name: "Mr. Vinegar, you foolish man,
you blockhead, you simpleton; you went to the fair, and laid out all
your money in buying a cow. Not content with that, you changed it
for bagpipes, on which you could not play, and which were not worth
one-tenth of the money. You fool, you--you had no sooner got the
bagpipes than you changed them for the gloves, which were not worth
one-quarter of the money; and when you had got the gloves, you changed
them for a poor miserable stick; and now for your forty guineas, cow,
bagpipes, and gloves, you have nothing to show but that poor miserable
stick, which you might have cut in any hedge." On this the bird laughed
and laughed, and Mr. Vinegar, falling into a violent rage, threw the
stick at its head. The stick lodged in the tree, and he returned to his
wife without money, cow, bagpipes, gloves, or stick, and she instantly
gave him such a sound cudgelling that she almost broke every bone in his
skin.




NIX NOUGHT NOTHING

There once lived a king and a queen as many a one has been. They were
long married and had no children; but at last a baby-boy came to the
queen when the king was away in the far countries. The queen would not
christen the boy till the king came back, and she said, "We will just
call him _Nix Nought Nothing_ until his father comes home." But it was
long before he came home, and the boy had grown a nice little laddie.
At length the king was on his way back; but he had a big river to cross,
and there was a whirlpool, and he could not get over the water. But a
giant came up to him, and said "I'll carry you over." But the king said:
"What's your pay?" "O give me Nix, Nought, Nothing, and I will carry you
over the water on my back." The king had never heard that his son was
called Nix Nought Nothing, and so he said: "O, I'll give you that and
my thanks into the bargain." When the king got home again, he was very
happy to see his wife again, and his young son. She told him that she
had not given the child any name, but just Nix Nought Nothing, until he
should come home again himself. The poor king was in a terrible case.
He said: "What have I done? I promised to give the giant who carried me
over the river on his back, Nix Nought Nothing." The king and the queen
were sad and sorry, but they said: "When the giant comes we will give
him the hen-wife's boy; he will never know the difference." The next
day the giant came to claim the king's promise, and he sent for the
hen-wife's boy; and the giant went away with the boy on his back. He
travelled till he came to a big stone, and there he sat down to rest. He
said,

"Hidge, Hodge, on my back, what time of day is that?"

The poor little boy said: "It is the time that my mother, the hen-wife,
takes up the eggs for the queen's breakfast."

The Giant was very angry, and dashed the boy's head on the stone and
killed him.

So he went back in a tower of a temper and this time they gave him the
gardener's boy. He went off with him on his back till they got to the
stone again when the giant sat down to rest. And he said:

"Hidge, Hodge, on my back, what time of day do you make that?"

The gardener's boy said: "Sure it's the time that my mother takes up the
vegetables for the queen's dinner." Then the giant was right wild and
dashed his brains out on the stone.

Then the giant went back to the king's house in a terrible temper and
said he would destroy them all if they did not give him Nix Nought
Nothing this time. They had to do it; and when he came to the big stone,
the giant said: "What time of day is that?" Nix Nought Nothing said: "It
is the time that my father the king will be sitting down to supper." The
giant said: "I've got the right one now;" and took Nix Nought Nothing to
his own house and brought him up till he was a man.

The giant had a bonny daughter, and she and the lad grew very fond of
each other. The giant said one day to Nix Nought Nothing: "I've work for
you to-morrow. There is a stable seven miles long and seven miles broad,
and it has not been cleaned for seven years, and you must clean it
to-morrow, or I will have you for my supper."

The giant's daughter went out next morning with the lad's breakfast, and
found him in a terrible state, for always as he cleaned out a bit, it
just fell in again. The giant's daughter said she would help him, and
she cried all the beasts in the field, and all the fowls of the air, and
in a minute they all came, and carried away everything that was in the
stable and made it all clean before the giant came home. He said: "Shame
on the wit that helped you; but I have a worse job for you to-morrow."
Then he said to Nix Nought Nothing: "There's a lake seven miles long,
and seven miles deep, and seven miles broad, and you must drain it
to-morrow by nightfall, or else I'll have you for my supper." Nix Nought
Nothing began early next morning and tried to lave the water with his
pail, but the lake was never getting any less, and he didn't know what
to do; but the giant's daughter called on all the fish in the sea to
come and drink the water, and very soon they drank it dry. When the
giant saw the work done he was in a rage, and said: "I've a worse job
for you to-morrow; there is a tree, seven miles high, and no branch on
it, till you get to the top, and there is a nest with seven eggs in it,
and you must bring down all the eggs without breaking one, or else I'll
have you for my supper." At first the giant's daughter did not know how
to help Nix Nought Nothing; but she cut off first her fingers and then
her toes, and made steps of them, and he clomb the tree and got all the
eggs safe till he came just to the bottom, and then one was broken. So
they determined to run away together and after the giant's daughter had
tidied up her hair a bit and got her magic flask they set out together
as fast as they could run. And they hadn't got but three fields away
when they looked back and saw the giant walking along at top speed after
them. "Quick, quick," called out the giant's daughter, "take my comb
from my hair and throw it down." Nix Nought Nothing took her comb from
her hair and threw it down, and out of every one of its prongs there
sprung up a fine thick briar in the way of the giant. You may be sure it
took him a long time to work his way through the briar bush and by the
time he was well through Nix Nought Nothing and his sweetheart had run
on a tidy step away from him. But he soon came along after them and was
just like to catch 'em up when the giant's daughter called out to Nix
Nought Nothing, "Take my hair dagger and throw it down, quick, quick."
So Nix Nought Nothing threw down the hair dagger and out of it grew as
quick as lightning a thick hedge of sharp razors placed criss-cross. The
giant had to tread very cautiously to get through all this and meanwhile
the young lovers ran on, and on, and on, till they were nearly out of
sight. But at last the giant was through, and it wasn't long before he
was like to catch them up. But just as he was stretching out his hand
to catch Nix Nought Nothing his daughter took out her magic flask and
dashed it on the ground. And as it broke out of it welled a big, big
wave that grew, and that grew, till it reached the giant's waist and
then his neck, and when it got to his head, he was drowned dead, and
dead, and dead indeed. So he goes out of the story.

But Nix Nought Nothing fled on till where do you think they came to?
Why, to near the castle of Nix Nought Nothing's father and mother. But
the giant's daughter was so weary that she couldn't move a step further.
So Nix Nought Nothing told her to wait there while he went and found
out a lodging for the night. And he went on towards the lights of the
castle, and on the way he came to the cottage of the hen-wife whose
boy had had his brains dashed out by the giant. Now she knew Nix Nought
Nothing in a moment, and hated him because he was the cause of her son's
death. So when he asked his way to the castle she put a spell upon him,
and when he got to the castle, no sooner was he let in than he fell down
dead asleep upon a bench in the hall. The king and queen tried all they
could do to wake him up, but all in vain. So the king promised that if
any lady could wake him up she should marry him. Meanwhile the giant's
daughter was waiting and waiting for him to come back. And she went up
into a tree to watch for him. The gardener's daughter, going to draw
water in the well, saw the shadow of the lady in the water and thought
it was herself, and said; "If I'm so bonny, if I'm so brave, why do you
send me to draw water?" So she threw down her pail and went to see if
she could wed the sleeping stranger. And she went to the hen-wife, who
taught her an unspelling catch which would keep Nix Nought Nothing awake
as long as the gardener's daughter liked. So she went up to the castle
and sang her catch and Nix Nought Nothing was wakened for a bit and they
promised to wed him to the gardener's daughter. Meanwhile the gardener
went down to draw water from the well and saw the shadow of the lady in
the water. So he looks up and finds her, and he brought the lady from
the tree, and led her into his house. And he told her that a stranger
was to marry his daughter, and took her up to the castle and showed her
the man: and it was Nix Nought Nothing asleep in a chair. And she saw
him, and cried to him: "Waken, waken, and speak to me!" But he would not
waken, and soon she cried:

  "I cleaned the stable, I laved the lake, and I clomb the tree,
  And all for the love of thee,
  And thou wilt not waken and speak to me."

The king and the queen heard this, and came to the bonny young lady, and
she said:

"I cannot get Nix Nought Nothing to speak to me for all that I can do."

Then were they greatly astonished when she spoke of Nix Nought Nothing,
and asked where he was, and she said: "He that sits there in the chair."
Then they ran to him and kissed him and called him their own dear son;
so they called for the gardener's daughter and made her sing her charm,
and he wakened, and told them all that the giant's daughter had done
for him, and of all her kindness. Then they took her in their arms and
kissed her, and said she should now be their daughter, for their son
should marry her. But they sent for the hen-wife and put her to death.
And they lived happy all their days.




JACK HANNAFORD

There was an old soldier who had been long in the wars--so long, that
he was quite out-at-elbows, and he did not know where to go to find a
living. So he walked up moors, down glens, till at last he came to a
farm, from which the good man had gone away to market. The wife of the
farmer was a very foolish woman, who had been a widow when he married
her; the farmer was foolish enough, too, and it is hard to say which of
the two was the more foolish. When you've heard my tale you may decide.

Now before the farmer goes to market says he to his wife: "Here is ten
pounds all in gold, take care of it till I come home." If the man had
not been a fool he would never have given the money to his wife to keep.
Well, off he went in his cart to market, and the wife said to herself:
"I will keep the ten pounds quite safe from thieves;" so she tied it up
in a rag, and she put the rag up the parlour chimney.

"There," said she, "no thieves will ever find it now, that is quite
sure."

Jack Hannaford, the old soldier, came and rapped at the door.

"Who is there?" asked the wife.

"Jack Hannaford."

"Where do you come from?"

"Paradise."

"Lord a' mercy! and maybe you've seen my old man there," alluding to her
former husband.

"Yes, I have."

"And how was he a-doing?" asked the goody.

"But middling; he cobbles old shoes, and he has nothing but cabbage for
victuals."

"Deary me!" exclaimed the woman. "Didn't he send a message to me?"

"Yes, he did," replied Jack Hannaford. "He said that he was out of
leather, and his pockets were empty, so you were to send him a few
shillings to buy a fresh stock of leather."

"He shall have them, bless his poor soul!" And away went the wife to the
parlour chimney, and she pulled the rag with the ten pounds in it from
the chimney, and she gave the whole sum to the soldier, telling him that
her old man was to use as much as he wanted, and to send back the rest.

It was not long that Jack waited after receiving the money; he went off
as fast as he could walk.

Presently the farmer came home and asked for his money. The wife told
him that she had sent it by a soldier to her former husband in Paradise,
to buy him leather for cobbling the shoes of the saints and angels of
Heaven. The farmer was very angry, and he swore that he had never met
with such a fool as his wife. But the wife said that her husband was a
greater fool for letting her have the money.

There was no time to waste words; so the farmer mounted his horse and
rode off after Jack Hannaford. The old soldier heard the horse's hoofs
clattering on the road behind him, so he knew it must be the farmer
pursuing him. He lay down on the ground, and shading his eyes with one
hand, looked up into the sky, and pointed heavenwards with the other
hand.

"What are you about there?" asked the farmer, pulling up.

"Lord save you!" exclaimed Jack: "I've seen a rare sight."

"What was that?"

"A man going straight up into the sky, as if he were walking on a road."

"Can you see him still?"

"Yes, I can."

"Where?"

"Get off your horse and lie down."

"If you will hold the horse."

Jack did so readily.

"I cannot see him," said the farmer.

"Shade your eyes with your hand, and you'll soon see a man flying away
from you."

Sure enough he did so, for Jack leaped on the horse, and rode away with
it. The farmer walked home without his horse.

"You are a bigger fool than I am," said the wife; "for I did only one
foolish thing, and you have done two."




BINNORIE

Once upon a time there were two king's daughters lived in a bower near
the bonny mill-dams of Binnorie. And Sir William came wooing the eldest
and won her love and plighted troth with glove and with ring. But after
a time he looked upon the youngest, with her cherry cheeks and golden
hair, and his love grew towards her till he cared no longer for the
eldest one. So she hated her sister for taking away Sir William's love,
and day by day her hate grew upon her, and she plotted and she planned
how to get rid of her.

So one fine morning, fair and clear, she said to her sister, "Let us
go and see our father's boats come in at the bonny mill-stream of
Binnorie." So they went there hand in hand. And when they got to the
river's bank the youngest got upon a stone to watch for the coming of
the boats. And her sister, coming behind her, caught her round the waist
and dashed her into the rushing mill-stream of Binnorie.

"O sister, sister, reach me your hand!" she cried, as she floated away,
"and you shall have half of all I've got or shall get."

"No, sister, I'll reach you no hand of mine, for I am the heir to all
your land. Shame on me if I touch the hand that has come 'twixt me and
my own heart's love."

"O sister, O sister, then reach me your glove!" she cried, as she
floated further away, "and you shall have your William again."

"Sink on," cried the cruel princess, "no hand or glove of mine you'll
touch. Sweet William will be all mine when you are sunk beneath the
bonny mill-stream of Binnorie." And she turned and went home to the
king's castle.

And the princess floated down the mill-stream, sometimes swimming
and sometimes sinking, till she came near the mill. Now the miller's
daughter was cooking that day, and needed water for her cooking. And as
she went to draw it from the stream, she saw something floating towards
the mill-dam, and she called out, "Father! father! draw your dam.
There's something white--a merry maid or a milk-white swan--coming down
the stream." So the miller hastened to the dam and stopped the heavy
cruel mill-wheels. And then they took out the princess and laid her on
the bank.

Fair and beautiful she looked as she lay there. In her golden hair were
pearls and precious stones; you could not see her waist for her golden
girdle; and the golden fringe of her white dress came down over her lily
feet. But she was drowned, drowned!

And as she lay there in her beauty a famous harper passed by the
mill-dam of Binnorie, and saw her sweet pale face. And though he
travelled on far away he never forgot that face, and after many days he
came back to the bonny mill-stream of Binnorie. But then all he could
find of her where they had put her to rest were her bones and her
golden hair. So he made a harp out of her breast-bone and her hair, and
travelled on up the hill from the mill-dam of Binnorie, till he came to
the castle of the king her father.

That night they were all gathered in the castle hall to hear the great
harper--king and queen, their daughter and son, Sir William and all
their Court. And first the harper sang to his old harp, making them joy
and be glad or sorrow and weep just as he liked. But while he sang he
put the harp he had made that day on a stone in the hall. And presently
it began to sing by itself, low and clear, and the harper stopped and
all were hushed.

And this was what the harp sung:

  "O yonder sits my father, the king,
    Binnorie, O Binnorie;
  And yonder sits my mother, the queen;
    By the bonny mill-dams o' Binnorie,

  "And yonder stands my brother Hugh,
    Binnorie, O Binnorie;
  And by him, my William, false and true;
    By the bonny mill-dams o' Binnorie."

Then they all wondered, and the harper told them how he had seen the
princess lying drowned on the bank near the bonny mill-dams o'
Binnorie, and how he had afterwards made this harp out of her hair and
breast-bone. Just then the harp began singing again, and this was what
it sang out loud and clear:

  "And there sits my sister who drownèd me
  By the bonny mill-dams o' Binnorie."

And the harp snapped and broke, and never sang more.




MOUSE AND MOUSER

The Mouse went to visit the Cat, and found her sitting behind the hall
door, spinning.

MOUSE. What are you doing, my lady, my lady, What are you doing, my
lady?

CAT (_sharply_). I'm spinning old breeches, good body, good body I'm
spinning old breeches, good body.

MOUSE. Long may you wear them, my lady, my lady, Long may you wear them,
my lady.

CAT (_gruffly_). I'll wear' em and tear 'em, good body, good body. I'll
wear 'em and tear 'em, good body.

MOUSE. I was sweeping my room, my lady, my lady, I was sweeping my room,
my lady.

CAT. The cleaner you'd be, good body, good body, The cleaner you'd be,
good body.

MOUSE. I found a silver sixpence, my lady, my lady, I found a silver
sixpence, my lady.

CAT. The richer you were, good body, good body, The richer you were,
good body.

MOUSE. I went to the market, my lady, my lady, I went to the market, my
lady.

CAT. The further you went, good body, good body The further you went,
good body.

MOUSE. I bought me a pudding, my lady, my lady, I bought me a pudding,
my lady.

CAT (_snarling_). The more meat you had, good body, good body, The more
meat you had, good body.

MOUSE. I put it in the window to cool, my lady, I put it in the window
to cool.

CAT. (_sharply_). The faster you'd eat it, good body, good body, The
faster you'd eat it, good body.

MOUSE (_timidly_). The cat came and ate it, my lady, my lady, The cat
came and ate it, my lady.

CAT (_pouncingly_). And I'll eat you, good body, good body, And I'll eat
you, good body.

(_Springs upon the mouse and kills it._)




CAP O' RUSHES

Well, there was once a very rich gentleman, and he'd three daughters,
and he thought he'd see how fond they were of him. So he says to the
first, "How much do you love me, my dear?"

"Why," says she, "as I love my life."

"That's good," says he.

So he says to the second, "How much do _you_ love me, my dear?"

"Why," says she, "better nor all the world."

"That's good," says he.

So he says to the third, "How much do _you_ love me, my dear?"

"Why, I love you as fresh meat loves salt," says she.

Well, he was that angry. "You don't love me at all," says he, "and in
my house you stay no more." So he drove her out there and then, and shut
the door in her face.

Well, she went away on and on till she came to a fen, and there she
gathered a lot of rushes and made them into a kind of a sort of a
cloak with a hood, to cover her from head to foot, and to hide her fine
clothes. And then she went on and on till she came to a great house.

"Do you want a maid?" says she.

"No, we don't," said they.

"I haven't nowhere to go," says she; "and I ask no wages, and do any
sort of work," says she.

"Well," says they, "if you like to wash the pots and scrape the
saucepans you may stay," said they.

So she stayed there and washed the pots and scraped the saucepans and
did all the dirty work. And because she gave no name they called her
"Cap o' Rushes."

Well, one day there was to be a great dance a little way off, and the
servants were allowed to go and look on at the grand people. Cap o'
Rushes said she was too tired to go, so she stayed at home.

But when they were gone she offed with her cap o' rushes, and cleaned
herself, and went to the dance. And no one there was so finely dressed
as her.

Well, who should be there but her master's son, and what should he do
but fall in love with her the minute he set eyes on her. He wouldn't
dance with any one else.

But before the dance was done Cap o' Rushes slipt off, and away she went
home. And when the other maids came back she was pretending to be asleep
with her cap o' rushes on.

Well, next morning they said to her, "You did miss a sight, Cap o'
Rushes!"

"What was that?" says she.

"Why, the beautifullest lady you ever see, dressed right gay and ga'.
The young master, he never took his eyes off her."

"Well, I should have liked to have seen her," says Cap o' Rushes.

"Well, there's to be another dance this evening, and perhaps she'll be
there."

But, come the evening, Cap o' Rushes said she was too tired to go with
them. Howsoever, when they were gone, she offed with her cap o' rushes
and cleaned herself, and away she went to the dance.

The master's son had been reckoning on seeing her, and he danced with
no one else, and never took his eyes off her. But, before the dance was
over, she slipt off, and home she went, and when the maids came back
she, pretended to be asleep with her cap o' rushes on.

Next day they said to her again, "Well, Cap o' Rushes, you should ha'
been there to see the lady. There she was again, gay and ga', and the
young master he never took his eyes off her."

"Well, there," says she, "I should ha' liked to ha' seen her."

"Well," says they, "there's a dance again this evening, and you must go
with us, for she's sure to be there."

Well, come this evening, Cap o' Rushes said she was too tired to go, and
do what they would she stayed at home. But when they were gone she offed
with her cap o' rushes and cleaned herself, and away she went to the
dance.

The master's son was rarely glad when he saw her. He danced with none
but her and never took his eyes off her. When she wouldn't tell him her
name, nor where she came from, he gave her a ring and told her if he
didn't see her again he should die.

Well, before the dance was over, off she slipped, and home she went, and
when the maids came home she was pretending to be asleep with her cap o'
rushes on.

Well, next day they says to her, "There, Cap o' Rushes, you didn't come
last night, and now you won't see the lady, for there's no more dances."

"Well I should have rarely liked to have seen her," says she.

The master's son he tried every way to find out where the lady was gone,
but go where he might, and ask whom he might, he never heard anything
about her. And he got worse and worse for the love of her till he had to
keep his bed.

"Make some gruel for the young master," they said to the cook. "He's
dying for the love of the lady." The cook she set about making it when
Cap o' Rushes came in.

"What are you a-doing of?", says she.

"I'm going to make some gruel for the young master," says the cook, "for
he's dying for love of the lady."

"Let me make it," says Cap o' Rushes.

Well, the cook wouldn't at first, but at last she said yes, and Cap o'
Rushes made the gruel. And when she had made it she slipped the ring
into it on the sly before the cook took it upstairs.

The young man he drank it and then he saw the ring at the bottom.

"Send for the cook," says he.

So up she comes.

"Who made this gruel here?" says he.

"I did," says the cook, for she was frightened.

And he looked at her,

"No, you didn't," says he. "Say who did it, and you shan't be harmed."

"Well, then, 'twas Cap o' Rushes," says she.

"Send Cap o' Rushes here," says he.

So Cap o' Rushes came.

"Did you make my gruel?" says he.

"Yes, I did," says she.

"Where did you get this ring?" says he.

"From him that gave it me," says she.

"Who are you, then?" says the young man.

"I'll show you," says she. And she offed with her cap o' rushes, and
there she was in her beautiful clothes.

Well, the master's son he got well very soon, and they were to be
married in a little time. It was to be a very grand wedding, and every
one was asked far and near. And Cap o' Rushes' father was asked. But she
never told anybody who she was.

But before the wedding she went to the cook, and says she:

"I want you to dress every dish without a mite o' salt."

"That'll be rare nasty," says the cook.

"That doesn't signify," says she.

"Very well," says the cook.

Well, the wedding-day came, and they were married. And after they were
married all the company sat down to the dinner. When they began to eat
the meat, that was so tasteless they couldn't eat it. But Cap o' Rushes'
father he tried first one dish and then another, and then he burst out
crying.

"What is the matter?" said the master's son to him.

"Oh!" says he, "I had a daughter. And I asked her how much she loved me.
And she said 'As much as fresh meat loves salt.' And I turned her from
my door, for I thought she didn't love me. And now I see she loved me
best of all. And she may be dead for aught I know."

"No, father, here she is!" says Cap o' Rushes. And she goes up to him
and puts her arms round him.

And so they were happy ever after.




TEENY-TINY

Once upon a time there was a teeny-tiny woman lived in a teeny-tiny
house in a teeny-tiny village. Now, one day this teeny-tiny woman put
on her teeny-tiny bonnet, and went out of her teeny-tiny house to take
a teeny-tiny walk. And when this teeny-tiny woman had gone a teeny-tiny
way she came to a teeny-tiny gate; so the teeny-tiny woman opened the
teeny-tiny gate, and went into a teeny-tiny churchyard. And when this
teeny-tiny woman had got into the teeny-tiny churchyard, she saw a
teeny-tiny bone on a teeny-tiny grave, and the teeny-tiny woman said to
her teeny-tiny self, "This teeny-tiny bone will make me some teeny-tiny
soup for my teeny-tiny supper." So the teeny-tiny woman put the
teeny-tiny bone into her teeny-tiny pocket, and went home to her
teeny-tiny house.

Now when the teeny-tiny woman got home to her teeny-tiny house she was
a teeny-tiny bit tired; so she went up her teeny-tiny stairs to her
teeny-tiny bed, and put the teeny-tiny bone into a teeny-tiny cupboard.
And when this teeny-tiny woman had been to sleep a teeny-tiny time, she
was awakened by a teeny-tiny voice from the teeny-tiny cupboard, which
said:

"Give me my bone!"

And this teeny-tiny woman was a teeny-tiny frightened, so she hid her
teeny-tiny head under the teeny-tiny clothes and went to sleep again.
And when she had been to sleep again a teeny-tiny time, the teeny-tiny
voice again cried out from the teeny-tiny cupboard a teeny-tiny louder,
"Give me my bone!"

This made the teeny-tiny woman a teeny-tiny more frightened, so she hid
her teeny-tiny head a teeny-tiny further under the teeny-tiny clothes.
And when the teeny-tiny woman had been to sleep again a teeny-tiny
time, the teeny-tiny voice from the teeny-tiny cupboard said again a
teeny-tiny louder,

"Give me my bone!"

And this teeny-tiny woman was a teeny-tiny bit more frightened, but she
put her teeny-tiny head out of the teeny-tiny clothes, and said in her
loudest teeny-tiny voice, "TAKE IT!"




JACK AND THE BEANSTALK

There was once upon a time a poor widow who had an only son named Jack,
and a cow named Milky-white. And all they had to live on was the milk
the cow gave every morning which they carried to the market and sold.
But one morning Milky-white gave no milk and they didn't know what to
do.

"What shall we do, what shall we do?" said the widow, wringing her
hands.

"Cheer up, mother, I'll go and get work somewhere," said Jack.

"We've tried that before, and nobody would take you," said his mother;
"we must sell Milky-white and with the money do something, start shop,
or something."

"All right, mother," says Jack; "it's market-day today, and I'll soon
sell Milky-white, and then we'll see what we can do."

So he took the cow's halter in his hand, and off he starts. He hadn't
gone far when he met a funny-looking old man who said to him: "Good
morning, Jack."

"Good morning to you," said Jack, and wondered how he knew his name.

"Well, Jack, and where are you off to?" said the man.

"I'm going to market to sell our cow here."

"Oh, you look the proper sort of chap to sell cows," said the man; "I
wonder if you know how many beans make five."

"Two in each hand and one in your mouth," says Jack, as sharp as a
needle.

"Right you are," said the man, "and here they are the very beans
themselves," he went on pulling out of his pocket a number of
strange-looking beans. "As you are so sharp," says he, "I don't mind
doing a swop with you--your cow for these beans."

"Walker!" says Jack; "wouldn't you like it?"

"Ah! you don't know what these beans are," said the man; "if you plant
them over-night, by morning they grow right up to the sky."

"Really?" says Jack; "you don't say so."

"Yes, that is so, and if it doesn't turn out to be true you can have
your cow back."

"Right," says Jack, and hands him over Milky-white's halter and pockets
the beans.

Back goes Jack home, and as he hadn't gone very far it wasn't dusk by
the time he got to his door.

"What back, Jack?" said his mother; "I see you haven't got Milky-white,
so you've sold her. How much did you get for her?"

"You'll never guess, mother," says Jack.

"No, you don't say so. Good boy! Five pounds, ten, fifteen, no, it can't
be twenty."

"I told you you couldn't guess, what do you say to these beans; they're
magical, plant them over-night and----"

"What!" says Jack's mother, "have you been such a fool, such a dolt,
such an idiot, as to give away my Milky-white, the best milker in the
parish, and prime beef to boot, for a set of paltry beans. Take that!
Take that! Take that! And as for your precious beans here they go out of
the window. And now off with you to bed. Not a sup shall you drink, and
not a bit shall you swallow this very night."

So Jack went upstairs to his little room in the attic, and sad and sorry
he was, to be sure, as much for his mother's sake, as for the loss of
his supper.

At last he dropped off to sleep.

When he woke up, the room looked so funny. The sun was shining into part
of it, and yet all the rest was quite dark and shady. So Jack jumped
up and dressed himself and went to the window. And what do you think
he saw? why, the beans his mother had thrown out of the window into the
garden, had sprung up into a big beanstalk which went up and up and up
till it reached the sky. So the man spoke truth after all.

The beanstalk grew up quite close past Jack's window, so all he had to
do was to open it and give a jump on to the beanstalk which was made
like a big plaited ladder. So Jack climbed and he climbed and he climbed
and he climbed and he climbed and he climbed and he climbed till at last
he reached the sky. And when he got there he found a long broad road
going as straight as a dart. So he walked along and he walked along
and he walked along till he came to a great big tall house, and on the
doorstep there was a great big tall woman.

"Good morning, mum," says Jack, quite polite-like. "Could you be so kind
as to give me some breakfast." For he hadn't had anything to eat, you
know, the night before and was as hungry as a hunter.

"It's breakfast you want, is it?" says the great big tall woman, "it's
breakfast you'll be if you don't move off from here. My man is an ogre
and there's nothing he likes better than boys broiled on toast. You'd
better be moving on or he'll soon be coming."

"Oh! please mum, do give me something to eat, mum. I've had nothing to
eat since yesterday morning, really and truly, mum," says Jack. "I may
as well be broiled, as die of hunger."

Well, the ogre's wife wasn't such a bad sort, after all. So she took
Jack into the kitchen, and gave him a junk of bread and cheese and a jug
of milk. But Jack hadn't half finished these when thump! thump! thump!
the whole house began to tremble with the noise of someone coming.

"Goodness gracious me! It's my old man," said the ogre's wife, "what on
earth shall I do? Here, come quick and jump in here." And she bundled
Jack into the oven just as the ogre came in.

He was a big one, to be sure. At his belt he had three calves strung up
by the heels, and he unhooked them and threw them down on the table and
said: "Here, wife, broil me a couple of these for breakfast. Ah what's
this I smell?

  Fee-fi-fo-fum,
  I smell the blood of an Englishman,
  Be he alive, or be he dead
  I'll have his bones to grind my bread."

"Nonsense, dear," said his wife, "you're dreaming. Or perhaps you smell
the scraps of that little boy you liked so much for yesterday's dinner.
Here, go you and have a wash and tidy up, and by the time you come back
your breakfast'll be ready for you."

So the ogre went off, and Jack was just going to jump out of the oven
and run off when the woman told him not. "Wait till he's asleep," says
she; "he always has a snooze after breakfast."

Well, the ogre had his breakfast, and after that he goes to a big chest
and takes out of it a couple of bags of gold and sits down counting them
till at last his head began to nod and he began to snore till the whole
house shook again.

Then Jack crept out on tiptoe from his oven, and as he was passing the
ogre he took one of the bags of gold under his arm, and off he pelters
till he came to the beanstalk, and then he threw down the bag of gold
which of course fell in to his mother's garden, and then he climbed down
and climbed down till at last he got home and told his mother and showed
her the gold and said: "Well, mother, wasn't I right about the beans.
They are really magical, you see."

So they lived on the bag of gold for some time, but at last they came to
the end of that so Jack made up his mind to try his luck once more up at
the top of the beanstalk. So one fine morning he got up early, and got
on to the beanstalk, and he climbed and he climbed and he climbed and
he climbed and he climbed and he climbed till at last he got on the road
again and came to the great big tall house he had been to before. There,
sure enough, was the great big tall woman a-standing on the door-step.

"Good morning, mum," says Jack, as bold as brass, "could you be so good
as to give me something to eat?"

"Go away, my boy," said the big, tall woman, "or else my man will eat
you up for breakfast. But aren't you the youngster who came here once
before? Do you know, that very day, my man missed one of his bags of
gold."

"That's strange, mum," says Jack, "I dare say I could tell you something
about that but I'm so hungry I can't speak till I've had something to
eat."

Well the big tall woman was that curious that she took him in and gave
him something to eat. But he had scarcely begun munching it as slowly as
he could when thump! thump! thump! they heard the giant's footstep, and
his wife hid Jack away in the oven.

All happened as it did before. In came the ogre as he did before, said:
"Fee-fi-fo-fum," and had his breakfast off three broiled oxen. Then he
said: "Wife, bring me the hen that lays the golden eggs." So she brought
it, and the ogre said: "Lay," and it laid an egg all of gold. And then
the ogre began to nod his head, and to snore till the house shook.

Then Jack crept out of the oven on tiptoe and caught hold of the golden
hen, and was off before you could say "Jack Robinson." But this time the
hen gave a cackle which woke the ogre, and just as Jack got out of the
house he heard him calling: "Wife, wife, what have you done with my
golden hen?"

And the wife said: "Why, my dear?"

But that was all Jack heard, for he rushed off to the beanstalk and
climbed down like a house on fire. And when he got home he showed his
mother the wonderful hen and said "Lay," to it; and it laid a golden egg
every time he said "Lay."

Well, Jack was not content, and it wasn't very long before he determined
to have another try at his luck up there at the top of the beanstalk. So
one fine morning, he got up early, and went on to the beanstalk, and he
climbed and he climbed and he climbed and he climbed till he got to
the top. But this time he knew better than to go straight to the ogre's
house. And when he got near it he waited behind a bush till he saw the
ogre's wife come out with a pail to get some water, and then he crept
into the house and got into the copper. He hadn't been there long when
he heard thump! thump! thump! as before, and in come the ogre and his
wife.

"Fee-fi-fo-fum, I smell the blood of an Englishman," cried out the ogre;
"I smell him, wife, I smell him."

"Do you, my dearie?" says the ogre's wife. "Then if it's that little
rogue that stole your gold and the hen that laid the golden eggs he's
sure to have got into the oven." And they both rushed to the oven. But
Jack wasn't there, luckily, and the ogre's wife said: "There you are
again with your fee-fi-fo-fum. Why of course it's the laddie you caught
last night that I've broiled for your breakfast. How forgetful I am, and
how careless you are not to tell the difference between a live un and a
dead un."

So the ogre sat down to the breakfast and ate it, but every now and
then he would mutter: "Well, I could have sworn----" and he'd get up
and search the larder and the cupboards, and everything, only luckily he
didn't think of the copper.

After breakfast was over, the ogre called out: "Wife, wife, bring me my
golden harp." So she brought it and put it on the table before him. Then
he said: "Sing!" and the golden harp sang most beautifully. And it
went on singing till the ogre fell asleep, and commenced to snore like
thunder.

Then Jack lifted up the copper-lid very quietly and got down like a
mouse and crept on hands and knees till he got to the table when he got
up and caught hold of the golden harp and dashed with it towards the
door. But the harp called out quite loud: "Master! Master!" and the ogre
woke up just in time to see Jack running off with his harp.

Jack ran as fast as he could, and the ogre came rushing after, and would
soon have caught him only Jack had a start and dodged him a bit and knew
where he was going. When he got to the beanstalk the ogre was not more
than twenty yards away when suddenly he saw Jack disappear like, and
when he got up to the end of the road he saw Jack underneath climbing
down for dear life. Well, the ogre didn't like trusting himself to such
a ladder, and he stood and waited, so Jack got another start. But just
then the harp cried out: "Master! master!" and the ogre swung himself
down on to the beanstalk which shook with his weight. Down climbs Jack,
and after him climbed the ogre. By this time Jack had climbed down and
climbed down and climbed down till he was very nearly home. So he called
out: "Mother! mother! bring me an axe, bring me an axe." And his mother
came rushing out with the axe in her hand, but when she came to the
beanstalk she stood stock still with fright for there she saw the ogre
just coming down below the clouds.

But Jack jumped down and got hold of the axe and gave a chop at the
beanstalk which cut it half in two. The ogre felt the beanstalk shake
and quiver so he stopped to see what was the matter. Then Jack gave
another chop with the axe, and the beanstalk was cut in two and began
to topple over. Then the ogre fell down and broke his crown, and the
beanstalk came toppling after.

Then Jack showed his mother his golden harp, and what with showing that
and selling the golden eggs, Jack and his mother became very rich, and
he married a great princess, and they lived happy ever after.




THE STORY OF THE THREE LITTLE PIGS

  Once upon a time when pigs spoke rhyme
  And monkeys chewed tobacco,
  And hens took snuff to make them tough,
  And ducks went quack, quack, quack, O!

There was an old sow with three little pigs, and as she had not enough
to keep them, she sent them out to seek their fortune. The first that
went off met a man with a bundle of straw, and said to him:

"Please, man, give me that straw to build me a house."

Which the man did, and the little pig built a house with it. Presently
came along a wolf, and knocked at the door, and said:

"Little pig, little pig, let me come in."

To which the pig answered:

"No, no, by the hair of my chiny chin chin."

The wolf then answered to that:

"Then I'll huff, and I'll puff, and I'll blow your house in."

So he huffed, and he puffed, and he blew his house in, and ate up the
little pig.

The second little pig met a man with a bundle of furze, and said:

"Please, man, give me that furze to build a house."

Which the man did, and the pig built his house. Then along came the
wolf, and said:

"Little pig, little pig, let me come in."

"No, no, by the hair of my chiny chin chin."

"Then I'll puff, and I'll huff, and I'll blow your house in."

So he huffed, and he puffed, and he puffed, and he huffed, and at last
he blew the house down, and he ate up the little pig.

The third little pig met a man with a load of bricks, and said:

"Please, man, give me those bricks to build a house with."

So the man gave him the bricks, and he built his house with them. So the
wolf came, as he did to the other little pigs, and said:

"Little pig, little pig, let me come in."

"No, no, by the hair of my chiny chin chin."

"Then I'll huff, and I'll puff, and I'll blow your house in."

Well, he huffed, and he puffed, and he huffed and he puffed, and he
puffed and huffed; but he could _not_ get the house down. When he found
that he could not, with all his huffing and puffing, blow the house
down, he said:

"Little pig, I know where there is a nice field of turnips."

"Where?" said the little pig.

"Oh, in Mr. Smith's Home-field, and if you will be ready tomorrow
morning I will call for you, and we will go together, and get some for
dinner."

"Very well," said the little pig, "I will be ready. What time do you
mean to go?"

"Oh, at six o'clock."

Well, the little pig got up at five, and got the turnips before the wolf
came (which he did about six) and who said:

"Little Pig, are you ready?"

The little pig said: "Ready! I have been and come back again, and got a
nice potful for dinner."

The wolf felt very angry at this, but thought that he would be up to the
little pig somehow or other, so he said:

"Little pig, I know where there is a nice apple-tree."

"Where?" said the pig.

"Down at Merry-garden," replied the wolf, "and if you will not deceive
me I will come for you, at five o'clock tomorrow and get some apples."

Well, the little pig bustled up the next morning at four o'clock, and
went off for the apples, hoping to get back before the wolf came; but
he had further to go, and had to climb the tree, so that just as he was
coming down from it, he saw the wolf coming, which, as you may suppose,
frightened him very much. When the wolf came up he said:

"Little pig, what! are you here before me? Are they nice apples?"

"Yes, very," said the little pig. "I will throw you down one."

And he threw it so far, that, while the wolf was gone to pick it up, the
little pig jumped down and ran home. The next day the wolf came again,
and said to the little pig:

"Little pig, there is a fair at Shanklin this afternoon, will you go?"

"Oh yes," said the pig, "I will go; what time shall you be ready?"

"At three," said the wolf. So the little pig went off before the time
as usual, and got to the fair, and bought a butter-churn, which he was
going home with, when he saw the wolf coming. Then he could not tell
what to do. So he got into the churn to hide, and by so doing turned it
round, and it rolled down the hill with the pig in it, which frightened
the wolf so much, that he ran home without going to the fair. He went
to the little pig's house, and told him how frightened he had been by a
great round thing which came down the hill past him. Then the little pig
said:

"Hah, I frightened you, then. I had been to the fair and bought a
butter-churn, and when I saw you, I got into it, and rolled down the
hill."

Then the wolf was very angry indeed, and declared he _would_ eat up the
little pig, and that he would get down the chimney after him. When the
little pig saw what he was about, he hung on the pot full of water, and
made up a blazing fire, and, just as the wolf was coming down, took
off the cover, and in fell the wolf; so the little pig put on the cover
again in an instant, boiled him up, and ate him for supper, and lived
happy ever afterwards.




THE MASTER AND HIS PUPIL

There was once a very learned man in the north-country who knew all the
languages under the sun, and who was acquainted with all the mysteries
of creation. He had one big book bound in black calf and clasped with
iron, and with iron corners, and chained to a table which was made fast
to the floor; and when he read out of this book, he unlocked it with an
iron key, and none but he read from it, for it contained all the secrets
of the spiritual world. It told how many angels there were in heaven,
and how they marched in their ranks, and sang in their quires, and what
were their several functions, and what was the name of each great angel
of might. And it told of the demons, how many of them there were, and
what were their several powers, and their labours, and their names, and
how they might be summoned, and how tasks might be imposed on them, and
how they might be chained to be as slaves to man.

Now the master had a pupil who was but a foolish lad, and he acted as
servant to the great master, but never was he suffered to look into the
black book, hardly to enter the private room.

One day the master was out, and then the lad, as curious as could be,
hurried to the chamber where his master kept his wondrous apparatus
for changing copper into gold, and lead into silver, and where was his
mirror in which he could see all that was passing in the world, and
where was the shell which when held to the ear whispered all the words
that were being spoken by anyone the master desired to know about. The
lad tried in vain with the crucibles to turn copper and lead into gold
and silver--he looked long and vainly into the mirror; smoke and clouds
passed over it, but he saw nothing plain, and the shell to his ear
produced only indistinct murmurings, like the breaking of distant seas
on an unknown shore. "I can do nothing," he said; "as I don't know the
right words to utter, and they are locked up in yon book."

He looked round, and, see! the book was unfastened; the master had
forgotten to lock it before he went out. The boy rushed to it, and
unclosed the volume. It was written with red and black ink, and much of
it he could not understand; but he put his finger on a line and spelled
it through.

At once the room was darkened, and the house trembled; a clap of thunder
rolled through the passage and the old room, and there stood before him
a horrible, horrible form, breathing fire, and with eyes like burning
lamps. It was the demon Beelzebub, whom he had called up to serve him.

"Set me a task!" said he, with a voice like the roaring of an iron
furnace.

The boy only trembled, and his hair stood up.

"Set me a task, or I shall strangle thee!"

But the lad could not speak. Then the evil spirit stepped towards him,
and putting forth his hands touched his throat. The fingers burned his
flesh. "Set me a task!"

"Water yon flower," cried the boy in despair, pointing to a geranium
which stood in a pot on the floor. Instantly the spirit left the room,
but in another instant he returned with a barrel on his back, and poured
its contents over the flower; and again and again he went and came, and
poured more and more water, till the floor of the room was ankle-deep.

"Enough, enough!" gasped the lad; but the demon heeded him not; the lad
didn't know the words by which to send him away, and still he fetched
water.

It rose to the boy's knees and still more water was poured. It mounted
to his waist, and Beelzebub still kept on bringing barrels full. It rose
to his armpits, and he scrambled to the table-top. And now the water
in the room stood up to the window and washed against the glass, and
swirled around his feet on the table. It still rose; it reached his
breast. In vain he cried; the evil spirit would not be dismissed, and
to this day he would have been pouring water, and would have drowned
all Yorkshire. But the master remembered on his journey that he had
not locked his book, and therefore returned, and at the moment when
the water was bubbling about the pupil's chin, rushed into the room and
spoke the words which cast Beelzebub back into his fiery home.




TITTY MOUSE AND TATTY MOUSE

Titty Mouse and Tatty Mouse both lived in a house,

Titty Mouse went a leasing and Tatty Mouse went a leasing,

So they both went a leasing.

Titty Mouse leased an ear of corn, and Tatty Mouse leased an ear of
corn,

So they both leased an ear of corn.

Titty Mouse made a pudding, and Tatty Mouse made a pudding,

So they both made a pudding.

And Tatty Mouse put her pudding into the pot to boil,

But when Titty went to put hers in, the pot tumbled over, and scalded
her to death.

Then Tatty sat down and wept; then a three-legged stool said: "Tatty,
why do you weep?" "Titty's dead," said Tatty, "and so I weep;" "then,"
said the stool, "I'll hop," so the stool hopped.

Then a broom in the corner of the room said, "Stool, why do you hop?"
"Oh!" said the stool, "Titty's dead, and Tatty weeps, and so I hop;"
"then," said the broom, "I'll sweep," so the broom began to sweep.

"Then," said the door, "Broom, why do you sweep?" "Oh!" said the broom,
"Titty's dead, and Tatty weeps, and the stool hops, and so I sweep;"
"Then," said the door, "I'll jar," so the door jarred.

"Then," said the window, "Door, why do you jar?" "Oh!" said the door,
"Titty's dead, and Tatty weeps, and the stool hops, and the broom
sweeps, and so I jar."

"Then," said the window, "I'll creak," so the window creaked. Now there
was an old form outside the house, and when the window creaked, the form
said: "Window, why do you creak?" "Oh!" said the window, "Titty's dead,
and Tatty weeps, and the stool hops, and the broom sweeps, the door
jars, and so I creak."

"Then," said the old form, "I'll run round the house;" then the old form
ran round the house. Now there was a fine large walnut-tree growing by
the cottage, and the tree said to the form: "Form, why do you run round
the house?" "Oh!" said the form, "Titty's dead, and Tatty weeps, and the
stool hops, and the broom sweeps, the door jars, and the window creaks,
and so I run round the house."

"Then," said the walnut-tree, "I'll shed my leaves," so the walnut-tree
shed all its beautiful green leaves. Now there was a little bird perched
on one of the boughs of the tree, and when all the leaves fell, it
said: "Walnut-tree, why do you shed your leaves?" "Oh!" said the tree,
"Titty's dead, and Tatty weeps, the stool hops, and the broom sweeps,
the door jars, and the window creaks, the old form runs round the house,
and so I shed my leaves."

"Then," said the little bird, "I'll moult all my feathers," so he
moulted all his pretty feathers. Now there was a little girl walking
below, carrying a jug of milk for her brothers and sisters' supper,
and when she saw the poor little bird moult all its feathers, she said:
"Little bird, why do you moult all your feathers?" "Oh!" said the little
bird, "Titty's dead, and Tatty weeps, the stool hops, and the broom
sweeps, the door jars, and the window creaks, the old form runs round
the house, the walnut-tree sheds its leaves, and so I moult all my
feathers."

"Then," said the little girl, "I'll spill the milk," so she dropt the
pitcher and spilt the milk. Now there was an old man just by on the top
of a ladder thatching a rick, and when he saw the little girl spill the
milk, he said: "Little girl, what do you mean by spilling the milk, your
little brothers and sisters must go without their supper." Then said
the little girl: "Titty's dead, and Tatty weeps, the stool hops, and the
broom sweeps, the door jars, and the window creaks, the old form runs
round the house, the walnut-tree sheds all its leaves, the little bird
moults all its feathers, and so I spill the milk."

"Oh!" said the old man, "then I'll tumble off the ladder and break my
neck," so he tumbled off the ladder and broke his neck; and when the old
man broke his neck, the great walnut-tree fell down with a crash, and
upset the old form and house, and the house falling knocked the window
out, and the window knocked the door down, and the door upset the broom,
and the broom upset the stool, and poor little Tatty Mouse was buried
beneath the ruins.




JACK AND HIS GOLDEN SNUFF-BOX

Once upon a time, and a very good time it was, though it was neither in
my time nor in your time nor in any one else's time, there was an old
man and an old woman, and they had one son, and they lived in a great
forest. And their son never saw any other people in his life, but he
knew that there was some more in the world besides his own father and
mother, because he had lots of books, and he used to read every day
about them. And when he read about some pretty young women, he used
to go mad to see some of them; till one day, when his father was out
cutting wood, he told his mother that he wished to go away to look for
his living in some other country, and to see some other people besides
them two. And he said, "I see nothing at all here but great trees around
me; and if I stay here, maybe I shall go mad before I see anything." The
young man's father was out all this time, when this talk was going on
between him and his poor old mother.

The old woman begins by saying to her son before leaving, "Well, well,
my poor boy, if you want to go, it's better for you to go, and God
be with you."--(The old woman thought for the best when she said
that.)--"But stop a bit before you go. Which would you like best for me
to make you, a little cake and bless you, or a big cake and curse you?"
"Dear, dear!" said he, "make me a big cake. Maybe I shall be hungry on
the road." The old woman made the big cake, and she went on top of the
house, and she cursed him as far as she could see him.

He presently meets with his father, and the old man says to him: "Where
are you going, my poor boy?" when the son told the father the same tale
as he told his mother. "Well," says his father, "I'm sorry to see you
going away, but if you've made your mind to go, it's better for you to
go."

The poor lad had not gone far, when his father called him back; then
the old man drew out of his pocket a golden snuff-box, and said to him:
"Here, take this little box, and put it in your pocket, and be sure not
to open it till you are near your death." And away went poor Jack upon
his road, and walked till he was tired and hungry, for he had eaten all
his cake upon the road; and by this time night was upon him, so he could
hardly see his way before him. He could see some light a long way before
him, and he made up to it, and found the back door and knocked at it,
till one of the maid-servants came and asked him what he wanted. He said
that night was on him, and he wanted to get some place to sleep. The
maid-servant called him in to the fire, and gave him plenty to eat,
good meat and bread and beer; and as he was eating his food by the fire,
there came the young lady to look at him, and she loved him well and he
loved her. And the young lady ran to tell her father, and said there was
a pretty young man in the back kitchen; and immediately the gentleman
came to him, and questioned him, and asked what work he could do. Jack
said, the silly fellow, that he could do anything. (He meant that he
could do any foolish bit of work, that would be wanted about the house.)

"Well," says the gentleman to him, "if you can do anything, at eight
o'clock in the morning I must have a great lake and some of-the largest
man-of-war vessels sailing before my mansion, and one of the largest
vessels must fire a royal salute, and the last round must break the
leg of the bed where my young daughter is sleeping. And if you don't do
that, you will have to forfeit your life."

"All right," said Jack; and away he went to his bed, and said his
prayers quietly, and slept till it was near eight o'clock, and he had
hardly any time to think what he was to do, till all of a sudden he
remembered about the little golden box that his father gave him. And he
said to himself: "Well, well, I never was so near my death as I am now;"
and then he felt in his pocket, and drew the little box out. And when he
opened it, out there hopped three little red men, and asked Jack: "What
is your will with us?" "Well," said Jack, "I want a great lake and some
of the largest man-of-war vessels in the world before this mansion, and
one of the largest vessels to fire a royal salute, and the last round
to break one of the legs of the bed where this young lady is sleeping."
"All right," said the little men; "go to sleep."

Jack had hardly time to bring the words out of his mouth, to tell the
little men what to do, but what it struck eight o'clock, when Bang, bang
went one of the largest man-of-war vessels; and it made Jack jump out of
bed to look through the window; and I can assure you it was a wonderful
sight for him to see, after being so long with his father and mother
living in a wood.

By this time Jack dressed himself, and said his prayers, and came down
laughing; for he was proud, he was, because the thing was done so well.
The gentleman comes to him, and says to him: "Well, my young man, I must
say that you are very clever indeed. Come and have some breakfast." And
the gentleman tells him, "Now there are two more things you have to
do, and then you shall have my daughter in marriage." Jack gets his
breakfast, and has a good squint at the young lady, and also she at him.

The other thing that the gentleman told him to do was to fell all the
great trees for miles around by eight o'clock in the morning; and, to
make my long story short, it was done, and it pleased the gentleman well
The gentleman said to him: "The other thing you have to do"--(and it
was the last thing)--"you must get me a great castle standing on twelve
golden pillars; and there must come regiments of soldiers and go through
their drill. At eight o'clock the commanding officer must say, 'Shoulder
up.'" "All right," said Jack; when the third and last morning came
the third great feat was finished, and he had the young daughter in
marriage. But, oh dear! there is worse to come yet.

The gentleman now makes a large hunting party, and invites all the
gentlemen around the country to it, and to see the castle as well. And
by this time Jack has a beautiful horse and a scarlet dress to go with
them. On that morning his valet, when putting Jack's clothes by,
after changing them to go a hunting, put his hand in one of Jack's
waistcoat-pockets, and pulled out the little golden snuffbox, as poor
Jack left behind in a mistake. And that man opened the little box, and
there hopped the three little red men out, and asked him what he wanted
with them. "Well," said the valet to them, "I want this castle to be
moved from this place far and far across the sea." "All right," said
the little red men to him; "do you wish to go with it?" "Yes," said he.
"Well, get up," said they to him; and away they went far and far over
the great sea.

Now the grand hunting party comes back, and the castle upon the twelve
golden pillars had disappeared, to the great disappointment of those
gentlemen as did not see it before. That poor silly Jack is threatened
by taking his beautiful young wife from him, for taking them in in the
way he did. But the gentleman at last made an agreement with him, and he
is to have a twelvemonths and a day to look for it; and off he goes with
a good horse and money in his pocket.

Now poor Jack goes in search of his missing castle, over hills, dales,
valleys, and mountains, through woolly woods and sheepwalks, further
than I can tell you or ever intend to tell you. Until at last he comes
up to the place where lives the King of all the little mice in the
world. There was one of the little mice on sentry at the front gate
going up to the palace, and did try to stop Jack from going in. He asked
the little mouse: "Where does the King live? I should like to see him."
This one sent another with him to show him the place; and when the King
saw him, he called him in. And the King questioned him, and asked him
where he was going that way. Well, Jack told him all the truth, that he
had lost the great castle, and was going to look for it, and he had a
whole twelvemonths and a day to find it out. And Jack asked him whether
he knew anything about it; and the King said: "No, but I am the King
of all the little mice in the world, and I will call them all up in the
morning, and maybe they have seen something of it."

Then Jack got a good meal and bed, and in the morning he and the King
went on to the fields; and the King called all the mice together, and
asked them whether they had seen the great beautiful castle standing on
golden pillars. And all the little mice said, No, there was none of them
had seen it. The old King said to him that he had two other brothers:
"One is the King of all the frogs; and my other brother, who is the
oldest, he is the King of all the birds in the world. And if you go
there, may be they know something about the missing castle." The King
said to him: "Leave your horse here with me till you come back, and take
one of my best horses under you, and give this cake to my brother; he
will know then who you got it from. Mind and tell him I am well, and
should like dearly to see him." And then the King and Jack shook hands
together.

And when Jack was going through the gates, the little mouse asked him,
should he go with him; and Jack said to him: "No, I shall get myself
into trouble with the King." And the little thing told him: "It will be
better for you to let me go with you; maybe I shall do some good to you
some time without you knowing it." "Jump up, then." And the little mouse
ran up the horse's leg, and made it dance; and Jack put the mouse in his
pocket.

Now Jack, after wishing good morning to the King and pocketing the
little mouse which was on sentry, trudged on his way; and such a long
way he had to go and this was his first day. At last he found the place;
and there was one of the frogs on sentry, and gun upon his shoulder, and
did try to hinder Jack from going in; but when Jack said to him that he
wanted to see the King, he allowed him to pass; and Jack made up to the
door. The King came out, and asked him his business; and Jack told
him all from beginning to end. "Well, well, come in." He gets good
entertainment that night; and in the morning the King made such a funny
sound, and collected all the frogs in the world. And he asked them,
did they know or see anything of a castle that stood upon twelve golden
pillars; and they all made a curious sound, _Kro-kro, kro-kro_, and
said, No.

Jack had to take another horse, and a cake to this King's brother, who
is the King of all the fowls of the air; and as Jack was going through
the gates, the little frog that was on sentry asked John should he go
with him. Jack refused him for a bit; but at last he told him to jump
up, and Jack put him in his other waistcoat pocket. And away he went
again on his great long journey; it was three times as long this time as
it was the first day; however, he found the place, and there was a fine
bird on sentry. And Jack passed him, and he never said a word to him;
and he talked with the King, and told him everything, all about the
castle. "Well," said the King to him, "you shall know in the morning
from my birds, whether they know anything or not." Jack put up his horse
in the stable, and then went to bed, after having something to eat. And
when he got up in the morning the King and he went on to some field, and
there the King made some funny noise, and there came all the fowls that
were in all the world. And the King asked them; "Did they see the fine
castle?" and all the birds answered, No. "Well," said the King, "where
is the great bird?" They had to wait then for a long time for the eagle
to make his appearance, when at last he came all in a perspiration,
after sending two little birds high up in the sky to whistle on him to
make all the haste he possibly could. The King asked the great bird,
Did he see the great castle? and the bird said: "Yes, I came from there
where it now is." "Well," says the King to him; "this young gentleman
has lost it, and you must go with him back to it; but stop till you get
a bit of something to eat first."

They killed a thief, and sent the best part of it to feed the eagle on
his journey over the seas, and had to carry Jack on his back. Now when
they came in sight of the castle, they did not know what to do to get
the little golden box. Well, the little mouse said to them: "Leave me
down, and I will get the little box for you." So the mouse stole into
the castle, and got hold of the box; and when he was coming down the
stairs, it fell down, and he was very near being caught. He came running
out with it, laughing his best. "Have you got it?" Jack said to him; he
said: "Yes;" and off they went back again, and left the castle behind.

As they were all of them (Jack, mouse, frog, and eagle) passing over
the great sea, they fell to quarrelling about which it was that got the
little box, till down it slipped into the water. (It was by them looking
at it and handing it from one hand to the other that they dropped the
little box to the bottom of the sea.) "Well, well," said the frog, "I
knew that I would have to do something, so you had better let me go down
in the water." And they let him go, and he was down for three days and
three nights; and up he comes, and shows his nose and little mouth out
of the water; and all of them asked him, Did he get it? and he told
them, No. "Well, what are you doing there, then?" "Nothing at all," he
said, "only I want my full breath;" and the poor little frog went down
the second time, and he was down for a day and a night, and up he brings
it.

And away they did go, after being there four days and nights; and after
a long tug over seas and mountains, arrive at the palace of the old
King, who is the master of all the birds in the world. And the King
is very proud to see them, and has a hearty welcome and a long
conversation. Jack opens the little box, and told the little men to go
back and to bring the castle here to them; "and all of you make as much
haste back again as you possibly can."

The three little men went off; and when they came near the castle they
were afraid to go to it till the gentleman and lady and all the servants
were gone out to some dance. And there was no one left behind there only
the cook and another maid with her; and the little red men asked them
which would they rather--go, or stop behind? and they both said: "I will
go with you;" and the little men told them to run upstairs quick. They
were no sooner up and in one of the drawing-rooms than here comes just
in sight the gentleman and lady and all the servants; but it was too
late. Off the castle went at full speed, with the women laughing at them
through the window, while they made motions for them to stop, but all to
no purpose.

They were nine days on their journey, in which they did try to keep the
Sunday holy, when one of the little men turned to be the priest, the
other the clerk, and third presided at the organ, and the women were
the singers, for they had a grand chapel in the castle already. Very
remarkable, there was a discord made in the music, and one of the little
men ran up one of the organ-pipes to see where the bad sound came
from, when he found out it only happened to be that the two women were
laughing at the little red man stretching his little legs full length
on the bass pipes, also his two arms the same time, with his little red
night-cap, which he never forgot to wear, and what they never witnessed
before, could not help calling forth some good merriment while on the
face of the deep. And poor thing! through them not going on with what
they begun with, they very near came to danger, as the castle was once
very near sinking in the middle of the sea.

At length, after a merry journey, they come again to Jack and the King.
The King was quite struck with the sight of the castle; and going up the
golden stairs, went to see the inside.

The King was very much pleased with the castle, but poor Jack's time of
a twelvemonths and a day was drawing to a close; and he, wishing to
go home to his young wife, gives orders to the three little men to
get ready by the next morning at eight o'clock to be off to the next
brother, and to stop there for one night; also to proceed from there
to the last or the youngest brother, the master of all the mice in the
world, in such place where the castle shall be left under his care until
it's sent for. Jack takes a farewell of the King, and thanks him very
much for his hospitality.

Away went Jack and his castle again, and stopped one night in that
place; and away they went again to the third place, and there left the
castle under his care. As Jack had to leave the castle behind, he had to
take to his own horse, which he left there when he first started.

Now poor Jack leaves his castle behind and faces towards home; and
after having so much merriment with the three brothers every night, Jack
became sleepy on horseback, and would have lost the road if it was not
for the little men a-guiding him. At last he arrived weary and tired,
and they did not seem to receive him with any kindness whatever,
because he had not found the stolen castle; and to make it worse, he was
disappointed in not seeing his young and beautiful wife to come and meet
him, through being hindered by her parents. But that did not stop long.
Jack put full power on and despatched the little men off to bring the
castle from there, and they soon got there.

Jack shook hands with the King, and returned many thanks for his kingly
kindness in minding the castle for him; and then Jack instructed the
little men to spur up and put speed on. And off they went, and were not
long before they reached their journey's end, when out comes the young
wife to meet him with a fine lump of a young SON, and they all lived
happy ever afterwards.




THE STORY OF THE THREE BEARS

Once upon a time there were Three Bears, who lived together in a house
of their own, in a wood. One of them was a Little, Small Wee Bear; and
one was a Middle-sized Bear, and the other was a Great, Huge Bear. They
had each a pot for their porridge, a little pot for the Little, Small,
Wee Bear; and a middle-sized pot for the Middle Bear, and a great pot
for the Great, Huge Bear. And they had each a chair to sit in; a little
chair for the Little, Small, Wee Bear; and a middle-sized chair for the
Middle Bear; and a great chair for the Great, Huge Bear. And they had
each a bed to sleep in; a little bed for the Little, Small, Wee Bear;
and a middle-sized bed for the Middle Bear; and a great bed for the
Great, Huge Bear.

One day, after they had made the porridge for their breakfast, and
poured it into their porridge-pots, they walked out into the wood while
the porridge was cooling, that they might not burn their mouths, by
beginning too soon to eat it. And while they were walking, a little
old Woman came to the house. She could not have been a good, honest old
Woman; for first she looked in at the window, and then she peeped in at
the keyhole; and seeing nobody in the house, she lifted the latch. The
door was not fastened, because the Bears were good Bears, who did nobody
any harm, and never suspected that anybody would harm them. So the
little old Woman opened the door, and went in; and well pleased she was
when she saw the porridge on the table. If she had been a good little
old Woman, she would have waited till the Bears came home, and then,
perhaps, they would have asked her to breakfast; for they were good
Bears--a little rough or so, as the manner of Bears is, but for all
that very good-natured and hospitable. But she was an impudent, bad old
Woman, and set about helping herself.

So first she tasted the porridge of the Great, Huge Bear, and that was
too hot for her; and she said a bad word about that. And then she tasted
the porridge of the Middle Bear, and that was too cold for her; and she
said a bad word about that too. And then she went to the porridge of the
Little, Small, Wee Bear, and tasted that; and that was neither too hot,
nor too cold, but just right; and she liked it so well, that she ate
it all up: but the naughty old Woman said a bad word about the little
porridge-pot, because it did not hold enough for her.

Then the little old Woman sate down in the chair of the Great, Huge
Bear, and that was too hard for her. And then she sate down in the chair
of the Middle Bear, and that was too soft for her. And then she sate
down in the chair of the Little, Small, Wee Bear, and that was neither
too hard, nor too soft, but just right. So she seated herself in it, and
there she sate till the bottom of the chair came out, and down she came,
plump upon the ground. And the naughty old Woman said a wicked word
about that too.

Then the little old Woman went upstairs into the bed-chamber in which
the three Bears slept. And first she lay down upon the bed of the Great,
Huge Bear; but that was too high at the head for her. And next she lay
down upon the bed of the Middle Bear; and that was too high at the foot
for her. And then she lay down upon the bed of the Little, Small, Wee
Bear; and that was neither too high at the head, nor at the foot, but
just right. So she covered herself up comfortably, and lay there till
she fell fast asleep.

By this time the Three Bears thought their porridge would be cool
enough; so they came home to breakfast. Now the little old Woman had
left the spoon of the Great, Huge Bear, standing in his porridge.

"Somebody has been at my porridge!"

said the Great, Huge Bear, in his great, rough, gruff voice. And when
the Middle Bear looked at his, he saw that the spoon was standing in it
too. They were wooden spoons; if they had been silver ones, the naughty
old Woman would have put them in her pocket.

"Somebody has been at my porridge!"

said the Middle Bear in his middle voice.

Then the Little, Small, Wee Bear looked at his, and there was the spoon
in the porridge-pot, but the porridge was all gone.

"Somebody has been at my porridge, and has eaten it all up!"

said the Little, Small, Wee Bear, in his little, small, wee voice.

Upon this the Three Bears, seeing that some one had entered their house,
and eaten up the Little, Small, Wee Bear's breakfast, began to look
about them. Now the little old Woman had not put the hard cushion
straight when she rose from the chair of the Great, Huge Bear.

"Somebody has been sitting in my chair!"

said the Great, Huge Bear, in his great, rough, gruff voice.

And the little old Woman had squatted down the soft cushion of the
Middle Bear.

"Somebody has been sitting in my chair!"

said the Middle Bear, in his middle voice.

And you know what the little old Woman had done to the third chair.

"Somebody has been sitting in my chair and has sate the bottom out of
it!"

said the Little, Small, Wee Bear, in his little, small, wee voice.

Then the Three Bears thought it necessary that they should make farther
search; so they went upstairs into their bedchamber. Now the little old
Woman had pulled the pillow of the Great, Huge Bear, out of its place.

"Somebody has been lying in my bed!"

said the Great, Huge Bear, in his great, rough, gruff voice.

And the little old Woman had pulled the bolster of the Middle Bear out
of its place.

"Somebody has been lying in my bed!"

said the Middle Bear, in his middle voice.

And when the Little, Small, Wee Bear came to look at his bed, there was
the bolster in its place; and the pillow in its place upon the bolster;
and upon the pillow was the little old Woman's ugly, dirty head,--which
was not in its place, for she had no business there.

"Somebody has been lying in my bed,--and here she is!"

said the Little, Small, Wee Bear, in his little, small, wee voice.

The little old Woman had heard in her sleep the great, rough, gruff
voice of the Great, Huge Bear; but she was so fast asleep that it was
no more to her than the roaring of wind, or the rumbling of thunder. And
she had heard the middle voice, of the Middle Bear, but it was only as
if she had heard some one speaking in a dream. But when she heard the
little, small, wee voice of the Little, Small, Wee Bear, it was so
sharp, and so shrill, that it awakened her at once. Up she started; and
when she saw the Three Bears on one side of the bed, she tumbled herself
out at the other, and ran to the window. Now the window was open,
because the Bears, like good, tidy Bears, as they were, always opened
their bedchamber window when they got up in the morning. Out the little
old Woman jumped; and whether she broke her neck in the fall; or ran
into the wood and was lost there; or found her way out of the wood, and
was taken up by the constable and sent to the House of Correction for
a vagrant as she was, I cannot tell. But the Three Bears never saw
anything more of her.




JACK THE GIANT-KILLER

When good King Arthur reigned, there lived near the Land's End of
England, in the county of Cornwall, a farmer who had one only son called
Jack. He was brisk and of a ready lively wit, so that nobody or nothing
could worst him.

In those days the Mount of Cornwall was kept by a huge giant named
Cormoran. He was eighteen feet in height, and about three yards round
the waist, of a fierce and grim countenance, the terror of all the
neighbouring towns and villages. He lived in a cave in the midst of the
Mount, and whenever he wanted food he would wade over to the main-land,
where he would furnish himself with whatever came in his way. Everybody
at his approach ran out of their houses, while he seized on their
cattle, making nothing of carrying half-a-dozen oxen on his back at a
time; and as for their sheep and hogs, he would tie them round his waist
like a bunch of tallow-dips. He had done this for many years, so that
all Cornwall was in despair.

One day Jack happened to be at the town-hall when the magistrates were
sitting in council about the Giant. He asked: "What reward will be given
to the man who kills Cormoran?" "The giant's treasure," they said, "will
be the reward." Quoth Jack: "Then let me undertake it."

So he got a horn, shovel, and pickaxe, and went over to the Mount in the
beginning of a dark winter's evening, when he fell to work, and before
morning had dug a pit twenty-two feet deep, and nearly as broad,
covering it over with long sticks and straw. Then he strewed a little
mould over it, so that it appeared like plain ground. Jack then placed
himself on the opposite side of the pit, farthest from the giant's
lodging, and, just at the break of day, he put the horn to his mouth,
and blew, Tantivy, Tantivy. This noise roused the giant, who rushed
from his cave, crying: "You incorrigible villain, are you come here
to disturb my rest? You shall pay dearly for this. Satisfaction I will
have, and this it shall be, I will take you whole and broil you for
breakfast." He had no sooner uttered this, than he tumbled into the pit,
and made the very foundations of the Mount to shake. "Oh, Giant," quoth
Jack, "where are you now? Oh, faith, you are gotten now into Lob's
Pound, where I will surely plague you for your threatening words: what
do you think now of broiling me for your breakfast? Will no other diet
serve you but poor Jack?" Then having tantalised the giant for a while,
he gave him a most weighty knock with his pickaxe on the very crown of
his head, and killed him on the spot.

Jack then filled up the pit with earth, and went to search the cave,
which he found contained much treasure. When the magistrates heard of
this they made a declaration he should henceforth be termed

JACK THE GIANT-KILLER

and presented him with a sword and a belt, on which were written these
words embroidered in letters of gold:

  "Here's the right valiant Cornish man,
  Who slew the giant Cormoran."

The news of Jack's victory soon spread over all the West of England,
so that another giant, named Blunderbore, hearing of it, vowed to be
revenged on Jack, if ever he should light on him. This giant was the
lord of an enchanted castle situated in the midst of a lonesome wood.
Now Jack, about four months afterwards, walking near this wood in his
journey to Wales, being weary, seated himself near a pleasant fountain
and fell fast asleep. While he was sleeping, the giant, coming there
for water, discovered him, and knew him to be the far-famed Jack the
Giant-killer by the lines written on the belt. Without ado, he took Jack
on his shoulders and carried him towards his castle. Now, as they passed
through a thicket, the rustling of the boughs awakened Jack, who was
strangely surprised to find himself in the clutches of the giant. His
terror was only begun, for, on entering the castle, he saw the ground
strewed with human bones, and the giant told him his own would ere
long be among them. After this the giant locked poor Jack in an immense
chamber, leaving him there while he went to fetch another giant, his
brother, living in the same wood, who might share in the meal on Jack.

After waiting some time Jack, on going to the window beheld afar off the
two giants coming towards the castle. "Now," quoth Jack to himself, "my
death or my deliverance is at hand." Now, there were strong cords in a
corner of the room in which Jack was, and two of these he took, and made
a strong noose at the end; and while the giants were unlocking the iron
gate of the castle he threw the ropes over each of their heads. Then
he drew the other ends across a beam, and pulled with all his might, so
that he throttled them. Then, when he saw they were black in the face,
he slid down the rope, and drawing his sword, slew them both. Then,
taking the giant's keys, and unlocking the rooms, he found three fair
ladies tied by the hair of their heads, almost starved to death. "Sweet
ladies," quoth Jack, "I have destroyed this monster and his brutish
brother, and obtained your liberties." This said he presented them with
the keys, and so proceeded on his journey to Wales.

Jack made the best of his way by travelling as fast as he could, but
lost his road, and was benighted, and could find any habitation until,
coming into a narrow valley, he found a large house, and in order to
get shelter took courage to knock at the gate. But what was his surprise
when there came forth a monstrous giant with two heads; yet he did not
appear so fiery as the others were, for he was a Welsh giant, and
what he did was by private and secret malice under the false show of
friendship. Jack, having told his condition to the giant, was shown into
a bedroom, where, in the dead of night, he heard his host in another
apartment muttering these words:

  "Though here you lodge with me this night,
  You shall not see the morning light
  My club shall dash your brains outright!"

"Say'st thou so," quoth Jack; "that is like one of your Welsh tricks,
yet I hope to be cunning enough for you." Then, getting out of bed, he
laid a billet in the bed in his stead, and hid himself in a corner of
the room. At the dead time of the night in came the Welsh giant, who
struck several heavy blows on the bed with his club, thinking he had
broken every bone in Jack's skin. The next morning Jack, laughing in his
sleeve, gave him hearty thanks for his night's lodging. "How have you
rested?" quoth the giant; "did you not feel anything in the night?"
"No," quoth Jack, "nothing but a rat, which gave me two or three slaps
with her tail." With that, greatly wondering, the giant led Jack to
breakfast, bringing him a bowl containing four gallons of hasty pudding.
Being loth to let the giant think it too much for him, Jack put a large
leather bag under his loose coat, in such a way that he could convey the
pudding into it without its being perceived. Then, telling the giant he
would show him a trick, taking a knife, Jack ripped open the bag, and
out came all the hasty pudding. Whereupon, saying, "Odds splutters hur
nails, hur can do that trick hurself," the monster took the knife, and
ripping open his belly, fell down dead.

Now, it happened in these days that King Arthur's only son asked his
father to give him a large sum of money, in order that he might go and
seek his fortune in the principality of Wales, where lived a beautiful
lady possessed with seven evil spirits. The king did his best to
persuade his son from it, but in vain; so at last gave way and the
prince set out with two horses, one loaded with money, the other for
himself to ride upon. Now, after several days' travel, he came to a
market-town in Wales, where he beheld a vast crowd of people gathered
together. The prince asked the reason of it, and was told that they had
arrested a corpse for several large sums of money which the deceased
owed when he died. The prince replied that it was a pity creditors
should be so cruel, and said: "Go bury the dead, and let his creditors
come to my lodging, and there their debts shall be paid." They came,
in such great numbers that before night he had only twopence left for
himself.

Now Jack the Giant-Killer, coming that way, was so taken with the
generosity of the prince, that he desired to be his servant. This
being agreed upon, the next morning they set forward on their journey
together, when, as they were riding out of the town, an old woman called
after the prince, saying, "He has owed me twopence these seven years;
pray pay me as well as the rest." Putting his hand to his pocket, the
prince gave the woman all he had left, so that after their day's food,
which cost what small spell Jack had by him, they were without a penny
between them.

When the sun got low, the king's son said: "Jack, since we have no
money, where can we lodge this night?"

But Jack replied: "Master, we'll do well enough, for I have an uncle
lives within two miles of this place; he is a huge and monstrous giant
with three heads; he'll fight five hundred men in armour, and make them
to fly before him." "Alas!" quoth the prince, "what shall we do there?
He'll certainly chop us up at a mouthful. Nay, we are scarce enough to
fill one of his hollow teeth!"

"It is no matter for that," quoth Jack; "I myself will go before and
prepare the way for you; therefore stop here and wait till I return."
Jack then rode away at full speed, and coming to the gate of the castle,
he knocked so loud that he made the neighbouring hills resound. The
giant roared out at this like thunder: "Who's there?"

Jack answered: "None but your poor cousin Jack."

Quoth he: "What news with my poor cousin Jack?"

He replied: "Dear uncle, heavy news, God wot!"

"Prithee," quoth the giant, "what heavy news can come to me? I am
a giant with three heads, and besides thou knowest I can fight five
hundred men in armour, and make them fly like chaff before the wind."

"Oh, but," quoth Jack, "here's the king's son a-coming with a thousand
men in armour to kill you and destroy all that you have!"

"Oh, cousin Jack," said the giant, "this is heavy news indeed! I will
immediately run and hide myself, and thou shalt lock, bolt, and bar
me in, and keep the keys until the prince is gone." Having secured the
giant, Jack fetched his master, when they made themselves heartily merry
whilst the poor giant lay trembling in a vault under the ground.

Early in the morning Jack furnished his master with a fresh supply of
gold and silver, and then sent him three miles forward on his journey,
at which time the prince was pretty well out of the smell of the giant.
Jack then returned, and let the giant out of the vault, who asked what
he should give him for keeping the castle from destruction. "Why," quoth
Jack, "I want nothing but the old coat and cap, together with the old
rusty sword and slippers which are at your bed's head." Quoth the giant:
"You know not what you ask; they are the most precious things I have.
The coat will keep you invisible, the cap will tell you all you want to
know, the sword cuts asunder whatever you strike, and the shoes are
of extraordinary swiftness. But you have been very serviceable to me,
therefore take them with all my heart." Jack thanked his uncle, and then
went off with them. He soon overtook his master and they quickly arrived
at the house of the lady the prince sought, who, finding the prince to
be a suitor, prepared a splendid banquet for him. After the repast was
concluded, she told him she had a task for him. She wiped his mouth with
a handkerchief, saying: "You must show me that handkerchief to-morrow
morning, or else you will lose your head." With that she put it in
her bosom. The prince went to bed in great sorrow, but Jack's cap of
knowledge informed him how it was to be obtained. In the middle of the
night she called upon her familiar spirit to carry her to Lucifer. But
Jack put on his coat of darkness and his shoes of swiftness, and was
there as soon as she was. When she entered the place of the Old One, she
gave the handkerchief to old Lucifer, who laid it upon a shelf, whence
Jack took it and brought it to his master, who showed it to the lady
next day, and so saved his life. On that day, she gave the prince a kiss
and told him he must show her the lips to-morrow morning that she kissed
last night, or lose his head.

"Ah!" he replied, "if you kiss none but mine, I will."

"That is neither here nor there," said she; "if you do not, death's your
portion!"

At midnight she went as before, and was angry with old Lucifer for
letting the handkerchief go. "But now," quoth she, "I will be too hard
for the king's son, for I will kiss thee, and he is to show me thy
lips." Which she did, and Jack, when she was not standing by, cut off
Lucifer's head and brought it under his invisible coat to his master,
who the next morning pulled it out by the horns before the lady. This
broke the enchantment and the evil spirit left her, and she appeared in
all her beauty. They were married the next morning, and soon after went
to the court of King Arthur, where Jack for his many great exploits, was
made one of the Knights of the Round Table.

Jack soon went searching for giants again, but he had not ridden far,
when he saw a cave, near the entrance of which he beheld a giant sitting
upon a block of timber, with a knotted iron club by his side. His goggle
eyes were like flames of fire, his countenance grim and ugly, and his
cheeks like a couple of large flitches of bacon, while the bristles of
his beard resembled rods of iron wire, and the locks that hung down upon
his brawny shoulders were like curled snakes or hissing adders. Jack
alighted from his horse, and, putting on the coat of darkness, went up
close to the giant, and said softly: "Oh! are you there? It will not
be long before I take you fast by the beard." The giant all this while
could not see him, on account of his invisible coat, so that Jack,
coming up close to the monster, struck a blow with his sword at his
head, but, missing his aim, he cut off the nose instead. At this, the
giant roared like claps of thunder, and began to lay about him with his
iron club like one stark mad. But Jack, running behind, drove his sword
up to the hilt in the giant's back, so that he fell down dead. This
done, Jack cut off the giant's head, and sent it, with his brother's
also, to King Arthur, by a waggoner he hired for that purpose.

Jack now resolved to enter the giant's cave in search of his treasure,
and, passing along through a great many windings and turnings, he came
at length to a large room paved with freestone, at the upper end of
which was a boiling caldron, and on the right hand a large table, at
which the giant used to dine. Then he came to a window, barred with
iron, through which he looked and beheld a vast number of miserable
captives, who, seeing him, cried out: "Alas! young man, art thou come to
be one amongst us in this miserable den?"

"Ay," quoth Jack, "but pray tell me what is the meaning of your
captivity?"

"We are kept here," said one, "till such time as the giants have a wish
to feast, and then the fattest among us is slaughtered! And many are the
times they have dined upon murdered men!"

"Say you so," quoth Jack, and straightway unlocked the gate and let them
free, who all rejoiced like condemned men at sight of a pardon. Then
searching the giant's coffers, he shared the gold and silver equally
amongst them and took them to a neighbouring castle, where they all
feasted and made merry over their deliverance.

But in the midst of all this mirth a messenger brought news that one
Thunderdell, a giant with two heads, having heard of the death of his
kinsmen, had come from the northern dales to be revenged on Jack, and
was within a mile of the castle, the country people flying before him
like chaff. But Jack was not a bit daunted, and said: "Let him come! I
have a tool to pick his teeth; and you, ladies and gentlemen, walk out
into the garden, and you shall witness this giant Thunderdell's death
and destruction."

The castle was situated in the midst of a small island surrounded by a
moat thirty feet deep and twenty feet wide, over which lay a drawbridge.
So Jack employed men to cut through this bridge on both sides, nearly to
the middle; and then, dressing himself in his invisible coat, he marched
against the giant with his sword of sharpness. Although the giant could
not see Jack, he smelt his approach, and cried out in these words:

  "Fee, fi, fo, fum!
  I smell the blood of an Englishman!
  Be he alive or be he dead,
  I'll grind his bones to make me bread!"

"Say'st thou so," said Jack; "then thou art a monstrous miller indeed."

The giant cried out again: "Art thou that villain who killed my kinsmen?
Then I will tear thee with my teeth, suck thy blood, and grind thy bones
to powder."

"You'll have to catch me first," quoth Jack, and throwing off his
invisible coat, so that the giant might see him, and putting on his
shoes of swiftness, he ran from the giant, who followed like a walking
castle, so that the very foundations of the earth seemed to shake at
every step. Jack led him a long dance, in order that the gentlemen and
ladies might see; and at last to end the matter, ran lightly over the
drawbridge, the giant, in full speed, pursuing him with his club. Then,
coming to the middle of the bridge, the giant's great weight broke
it down, and he tumbled headlong into the water, where he rolled and
wallowed like a whale. Jack, standing by the moat, laughed at him all
the while; but though the giant foamed to hear him scoff, and plunged
from place to place in the moat, yet he could not get out to be
revenged. Jack at length got a cart-rope and cast it over the two heads
of the giant, and drew him ashore by a team of horses, and then cut
off both his heads with his sword of sharpness, and sent them to King
Arthur.

After some time spent in mirth and pastime, Jack, taking leave of the
knights and ladies, set out for new adventures. Through many woods he
passed, and came at length to the foot of a high mountain. Here, late
at night, he found a lonesome house, and knocked at the door, which was
opened by an aged man with a head as white as snow. "Father," said Jack,
"can you lodge a benighted traveller that has lost his way?" "Yes," said
the old man; "you are right welcome to my poor cottage." Whereupon Jack
entered, and down they sat together, and the old man began to speak as
follows: "Son, I see by your belt you are the great conqueror of giants,
and behold, my son, on the top of this mountain is an enchanted castle,
this is kept by a giant named Galligantua, and he by the help of an
old conjurer, betrays many knights and ladies into his castle, where by
magic art they are transformed into sundry shapes and forms. But above
all, I grieve for a duke's daughter, whom they fetched from her father's
garden, carrying her through the air in a burning chariot drawn by fiery
dragons, when they secured her within the castle, and transformed her
into a white hind. And though many knights have tried to break the
enchantment, and work her deliverance, yet no one could accomplish it,
on account of two dreadful griffins which are placed at the castle gate
and which destroy every one who comes near. But you, my son, may pass
by them undiscovered, where on the gates of the castle you will find
engraven in large letters how the spell may be broken." Jack gave the
old man his hand, and promised that in the morning he would venture his
life to free the lady.

In the morning Jack arose and put on his invisible coat and magic cap
and shoes, and prepared himself for the fray. Now, when he had reached
the top of the mountain he soon discovered the two fiery griffins, but
passed them without fear, because of his invisible coat. When he had got
beyond them, he found upon the gates of the castle a golden trumpet hung
by a silver chain, under which these lines were engraved:

  "Whoever shall this trumpet blow,
  Shall soon the giant overthrow,
  And break the black enchantment straight;
  So all shall be in happy state."

Jack had no sooner read this but he blew the trumpet, at which the
castle trembled to its vast foundations, and the giant and conjurer were
in horrid confusion, biting their thumbs and tearing their hair, knowing
their wicked reign was at an end. Then the giant stooping to take up
his club, Jack at one blow cut off his head; whereupon the conjurer,
mounting up into the air, was carried away in a whirlwind. Then the
enchantment was broken, and all the lords and ladies who had so long
been transformed into birds and beasts returned to their proper shapes,
and the castle vanished away in a cloud of smoke. This being done, the
head of Galligantua was likewise, in the usual manner, conveyed to the
Court of King Arthur, where, the very next day, Jack followed, with the
knights and ladies who had been delivered. Whereupon, as a reward
for his good services, the king prevailed upon the duke to bestow his
daughter in marriage on honest Jack. So married they were, and the
whole kingdom was filled with joy at the wedding. Furthermore, the king
bestowed on Jack a noble castle, with a very beautiful estate thereto
belonging, where he and his lady lived in great joy and happiness all
the rest of their days.




HENNY-PENNY

One day Henny-penny was picking up corn in the cornyard
when--whack!--something hit her upon the head. "Goodness gracious me!"
said Henny-penny; "the sky's a-going to fall; I must go and tell the
king."

So she went along and she went along and she went along till she met
Cocky-locky. "Where are you going, Henny-penny?" says Cocky-locky. "Oh!
I'm going to tell the king the sky's a-falling," says Henny-penny. "May
I come with you?" says Cocky-locky. "Certainly," says Henny-penny. So
Henny-penny and Cocky-locky went to tell-the king the sky was falling.

They went along, and they went along, and they went along, till they met
Ducky-daddles. "Where are you going to, Henny-penny and Cocky-locky?"
says Ducky-daddles. "Oh! we're going to tell the king the sky's
a-falling," said Henny-penny and Cocky-locky. "May I come with you?"
says Ducky-daddles. "Certainly," said Henny-penny and Cocky-locky. So
Henny-penny, Cocky-locky and Ducky-daddles went to tell the king the sky
was a-falling.

So they went along, and they went along, and they went along, till they
met Goosey-poosey, "Where are you going to, Henny-penny, Cocky-locky and
Ducky-daddles?" said Goosey-poosey. "Oh! we're going to tell the
king the sky's a-falling," said Henny-penny and Cocky-locky and
Ducky-daddles. "May I come with you," said Goosey-poosey. "Certainly,"
said Henny-penny, Cocky-locky and Ducky-daddles. So Henny-penny,
Cocky-locky, Ducky-daddles and Goosey-poosey went to tell the king the
sky was a-falling.

So they went along, and they went along, and they went along, till
they met Turkey-lurkey. "Where are you going, Henny-penny, Cocky-locky,
Ducky-daddles, and Goosey-poosey?" says Turkey-lurkey. "Oh! we're going
to tell the king the sky's a-falling," said Henny-penny, Cocky-locky,
Ducky-daddles and Goosey-poosey. "May I come with you? Henny-penny,
Cocky-locky, Ducky-daddles and Goosey-poosey?" said Turkey-lurkey. "Why,
certainly, Turkey-lurkey," said Henny-penny, Cocky-locky, Ducky-daddles,
and Goosey-poosey. So Henny-penny, Cocky-locky, Ducky-daddles,
Goosey-poosey and Turkey-lurkey all went to tell the king the sky was
a-falling.

So they went along, and they went along, and they went along, till
they met Foxy-woxy, and Foxy-woxy said to Henny-penny, Cocky-locky,
Ducky-daddles, Goosey-poosey and Turkey-lurkey: "Where are you
going, Henny-penny, Cocky-locky, Ducky-daddles, Goosey-poosey,
and Turkey-lurkey?" And Henny-penny, Cocky-locky, Ducky-daddles,
Goosey-poosey, and Turkey-lurkey said to Foxy-woxy: "We're going to tell
the king the sky's a-falling." "Oh! but this is not the way to the
king, Henny-penny, Cocky-locky, Ducky-daddles, Goosey-poosey and
Turkey-lurkey," says Foxy-woxy; "I know the proper way; shall I show
it you?" "Why certainly, Foxy-woxy," said Henny-penny, Cocky-locky,
Ducky-daddles, Goosey-poosey, and Turkey-lurkey. So Henny-penny,
Cocky-locky, Ducky-daddles, Goosey-poosey, Turkey-lurkey, and Foxy-woxy
all went to tell the king the sky was a-falling. So they went along,
and they went along, and they went along, till they came to a narrow and
dark hole. Now this was the door of Foxy-woxy's cave. But Foxy-woxy
said to Henny-penny, Cocky-locky, Ducky-daddles, Goosey-poosey, and
Turkey-lurkey: "This is the short way to the king's palace you'll
soon get there if you follow me. I will go first and you come
after, Henny-penny, Cocky-locky, Ducky daddles, Goosey-poosey, and
Turkey-lurkey." "Why of course, certainly, without doubt, why not?"
said Henny-Penny, Cocky-locky, Ducky-daddles, Goosey-poosey, and
Turkey-lurkey.

So Foxy-woxy went into his cave, and he didn't go very far but turned
round to wait for Henny-Penny, Cocky-locky, Ducky-daddles, Goosey-poosey
and Turkey-lurkey. So at last at first Turkey-lurkey went through the
dark hole into the cave. He hadn't got far when "Hrumph," Foxy-woxy
snapped off Turkey-lurkey's head and threw his body over his left
shoulder. Then Goosey-poosey went in, and "Hrumph," off went her head
and Goosey-poosey was thrown beside Turkey-lurkey. Then Ducky-daddles
waddled down, and "Hrumph," snapped Foxy-woxy, and Ducky-daddles'
head was off and Ducky-daddles was thrown alongside Turkey-lurkey and
Goosey-poosey. Then Cocky-locky strutted down into the cave and he
hadn't gone far when "Snap, Hrumph!" went Foxy-woxy and Cocky-locky was
thrown alongside of Turkey-lurkey, Goosey-poosey and Ducky-daddles.

But Foxy-woxy had made two bites at Cocky-locky, and when the first
snap only hurt Cocky-locky, but didn't kill him, he called out to
Henny-penny. So she turned tail and ran back home, so she never told the
king the sky was a-falling.




CHILDE ROWLAND

Childe Rowland and his brothers twain Were playing at the ball, And
there was their sister Burd Ellen In the midst, among them all.

  Childe Rowland kicked it with his foot
  And caught it with his knee;
  At last as he plunged among them all
  O'er the church he made it flee.

  Burd Ellen round about the aisle
  To seek the ball is gone,
  But long they waited, and longer still,
  And she came not back again.

  They sought her east, they sought her west,
  They sought her up and down,
  And woe were the hearts of those brethren,
  For she was not to be found.

So at last her eldest brother went to the Warlock Merlin and told him
all the case, and asked him if he knew where Burd Ellen was. "The fair
Burd Ellen," said the Warlock Merlin, "must have been carried off by the
fairies, because she went round the church 'wider shins'--the opposite
way to the sun. She is now in the Dark Tower of the King of Elfland; it
would take the boldest knight in Christendom to bring her back."

"If it is possible to bring her back," said her brother, "I'll do it, or
perish in the attempt."

"Possible it is," said the Warlock Merlin, "but woe to the man or
mother's son that attempts it, if he is not well taught beforehand what
he is to do."

The eldest brother of Burd Ellen was not to be put off, by any fear of
danger, from attempting to get her back, so he begged the Warlock Merlin
to tell him what he should do, and what he should not do, in going to
seek his sister. And after he had been taught, and had repeated his
lesson, he set out for Elfland.

  But long they waited, and longer still,
    With doubt and muckle pain,
  But woe were the hearts of his brethren,
    For he came not back again.

Then the second brother got tired and sick of waiting, and he went to
the Warlock Merlin and asked him the same as his brother. So he set out
to find Burd Ellen.

  But long they waited, and longer still,
    With muckle doubt and pain,
  And woe were his mother's and brother's heart,
    For he came not back again.

And when they had waited and waited a good long time, Childe Rowland,
the youngest of Burd Ellen's brothers, wished to go, and went to his
mother, the good queen, to ask her to let him go. But she would not at
first, for he was the last of her children she now had, and if he was
lost, all would be lost. But he begged, and he begged, till at last the
good queen let him go, and gave him his father's good brand that never
struck in vain. And as she girt it round his waist, she said the spell
that would give it victory.

So Childe Rowland said good-bye to the good queen, his mother, and went
to the cave of the Warlock Merlin. "Once more, and but once more," he
said to the Warlock, "tell how man or mother's son may rescue Burd Ellen
and her brothers twain."

"Well, my son," said the Warlock Merlin, "there are but two things,
simple they may seem, but hard they are to do. One thing to do, and one
thing not to do. And the thing to do is this: after you have entered the
land of Fairy, whoever speaks to you, till you meet the Burd Ellen,
you must out with your father's brand and off with their head. And what
you've not to do is this: bite no bit, and drink no drop, however hungry
or thirsty you be; drink a drop, or bite a bit, while in Elfland you be
and never will you see Middle Earth again."

So Childe Rowland said the two things over and over again, till he knew
them by heart, and he thanked the Warlock Merlin and went on his way.
And he went along, and along, and along, and still further along, till
he came to the horse-herd of the King of Elfland feeding his horses.
These he knew by their fiery eyes, and knew that he was at last in
the land of Fairy. "Canst thou tell me," said Childe Rowland to the
horse-herd, "where the King of Elfland's Dark Tower is?" "I cannot tell
thee," said the horse-herd, "but go on a little further and thou wilt
come to the cow-herd, and he, maybe, can tell thee."

Then, without a word more, Childe Rowland drew the good brand that never
struck in vain, and off went the horse-herd's head, and Childe Rowland
went on further, till he came to the cow-herd, and asked him the same
question. "I can't tell thee," said he, "but go on a little farther, and
thou wilt come to the hen-wife, and she is sure to know." Then Childe
Rowland out with his good brand, that never struck in vain, and off went
the cow-herd's head. And he went on a little further, till he came to an
old woman in a grey cloak, and he asked her if she knew where the Dark
Tower of the King of Elfland was. "Go on a little further," said
the hen-wife, "till you come to a round green hill, surrounded with
terrace-rings, from the bottom to the top; go round it three times,
widershins, and each time say:

  Open, door! open, door!
  And let me come in.

and the third time the door will open, and you may go in." And Childe
Rowland was just going on, when he remembered what he had to do; so he
out with the good brand, that never struck in vain, and off went the
hen-wife's head.

Then he went on, and on, and on, till he came to the round green hill
with the terrace-rings from top to bottom, and he went round it three
times, widershins, saying each time:

  Open, door! open, door!
  And let me come in.

And the third time the door did open, and he went in, and it closed with
a click, and Childe Rowland was left in the dark.

It was not exactly dark, but a kind of twilight or gloaming. There
were neither windows nor candles, and he could not make out where the
twilight came from, if not through the walls and roof. These were rough
arches made of a transparent rock, incrusted with sheepsilver and rock
spar, and other bright stones. But though it was rock, the air was quite
warm, as it always is in Elfland. So he went through this passage till
at last he came to two wide and high folding-doors which stood ajar. And
when he opened them, there he saw a most wonderful and glorious sight.
A large and spacious hall, so large that it seemed to be as long, and as
broad, as the green hill itself. The roof was supported by fine pillars,
so large and lofty, that the pillars of a cathedral were as nothing to
them. They were all of gold and silver, with fretted work, and between
them and around them, wreaths of flowers, composed of what do you think?
Why, of diamonds and emeralds, and all manner of precious stones. And
the very key-stones of the arches had for ornaments clusters of diamonds
and rubies, and pearls, and other precious stones. And all these arches
met in the middle of the roof, and just there, hung by a gold chain,
an immense lamp made out of one big pearl hollowed out and quite
transparent. And in the middle of this was a big, huge carbuncle, which
kept spinning round and round, and this was what gave light by its rays
to the whole hall, which seemed as if the setting sun was shining on it.

The hall was furnished in a manner equally grand, and at one end of
it was a glorious couch of velvet, silk and gold, and there sate Burd
Ellen, combing her golden hair with a silver comb. And when she saw
Childe Rowland she stood up and said:

  "God pity ye, poor luckless fool,
  What have ye here to do?

  "Hear ye this, my youngest brother,
  Why didn't ye bide at home?
  Had you a hundred thousand lives
  Ye couldn't spare any a one.

  "But sit ye down; but woe, O, woe,
  That ever ye were born,
  For come the King of Elfland in,
  Your fortune is forlorn."

Then they sate down together, and Childe Rowland told her all that he
had done, and she told him how their two brothers had reached the Dark
Tower, but had been enchanted by the King of Elfland, and lay there
entombed as if dead. And then after they had talked a little longer
Childe Rowland began to feel hungry from his long travels, and told his
sister Burd Ellen how hungry he was and asked for some food, forgetting
all about the Warlock Merlin's warning.

Burd Ellen looked at Childe Rowland sadly, and shook her head, but she
was under a spell, and could not warn him. So she rose up, and went
out, and soon brought back a golden basin full of bread and milk. Childe
Rowland was just going to raise it to his lips, when he looked at his
sister and remembered why he had come all that way. So he dashed the
bowl to the ground, and said: "Not a sup will I swallow, nor a bit will
I bite, till Burd Ellen is set free."

Just at that moment they heard the noise of some one approaching, and a
loud voice was heard saying:

  "Fee, fi, fo, fum,
  I smell the blood of a Christian man,
  Be he dead, be he living, with my brand,
  I'll dash his brains from his brain-pan."

And then the folding-doors of the hall were burst open, and the King of
Elfland rushed in.

"Strike then, Bogle, if thou darest," shouted out Childe Rowland, and
rushed to meet him with his good brand that never yet did fail. They
fought, and they fought, and they fought, till Childe Rowland beat the
King of Elfland down on to his knees, and caused him to yield and beg
for mercy. "I grant thee mercy," said Childe Rowland, "release my sister
from thy spells and raise my brothers to life, and let us all go free,
and thou shalt be spared." "I agree," said the Elfin King, and rising
up he went to a chest from which he took a phial filled with a blood-red
liquor. With this he anointed the ears, eyelids, nostrils, lips, and
finger-tips, of the two brothers, and they sprang at once into life, and
declared that their souls had been away, but had now returned. The Elfin
king then said some words to Burd Ellen, and she was disenchanted, and
they all four passed out of the hall, through the long passage, and
turned their back on the Dark Tower, never to return again. And they
reached home, and the good queen, their mother, and Burd Ellen never
went round a church widershins again.




MOLLY WHUPPIE

Once upon a time there was a man and a wife had too many children, and
they could not get meat for them, so they took the three youngest and
left them in a wood. They travelled and travelled and could see never
a house. It began to be dark, and they were hungry. At last they saw a
light and made for it; it turned out to be a house. They knocked at the
door, and a woman came to it, who said: "What do you want?" They said:
"Please let us in and give us something to eat." The woman said: "I
can't do that, as my man is a giant, and he would kill you if he comes
home." They begged hard. "Let us stop for a little while," said they,
"and we will go away before he comes." So she took them in, and set them
down before the fire, and gave them milk and bread; but just as they had
begun to eat a great knock came to the door, and a dreadful voice said:

  "Fee, fie, fo, fum,
  I smell the blood of some earthly one.

Who have you there wife?" "Eh," said the wife, "it's three poor lassies
cold and hungry, and they will go away. Ye won't touch 'em, man." He
said nothing, but ate up a big supper, and ordered them to stay all
night. Now he had three lassies of his own, and they were to sleep in
the same bed with the three strangers.

The youngest of the three strange lassies was called Molly Whuppie, and
she was very clever. She noticed that before they went to bed the giant
put straw ropes round her neck and her sisters', and round his own
lassies' necks he put gold chains. So Molly took care and did not fall
asleep, but waited till she was sure every one was sleeping sound. Then
she slipped out of the bed, and took the straw ropes off her own and her
sisters' necks, and took the gold chains off the giant's lassies. She
then put the straw ropes on the giant's lassies and the gold on herself
and her sisters, and lay down.

And in the middle of the night up rose the giant, armed with a great
club, and felt for the necks with the straw. It was dark. He took his
own lassies out of bed on to the floor, and battered them until they
were dead, and then lay down again, thinking he had managed fine. Molly
thought it time she and her sisters were out of that, so she wakened
them and told them to be quiet, and they slipped out of the house. They
all got out safe, and they ran and ran, and never stopped until morning,
when they saw a grand house before them. It turned out to be a king's
house: so Molly went in, and told her story to the king. He said: "Well,
Molly, you are a clever girl, and you have managed well; but, if you
would manage better, and go back, and steal the giant's sword that hangs
on the back of his bed, I would give your eldest sister my eldest son to
marry." Molly said she would try.

So she went back, and managed to slip into the giant's house, and crept
in below the bed. The giant came home, and ate up a great supper, and
went to bed. Molly waited until he was snoring, and she crept out, and
reached over the giant and got down the sword; but just as she got it
out over the bed it gave a rattle, and up jumped the giant, and Molly
ran out at the door and the sword with her; and she ran, and he ran,
till they came to the "Bridge of one hair"; and she got over, but he
couldn't, and he says, "Woe worth ye, Molly Whuppie! never ye come
again." And she says "Twice yet, carle," quoth she, "I'll come to
Spain." So Molly took the sword to the king, and her sister was married
to his son.

Well, the king he says: "Ye've managed well, Molly; but if ye would
manage better, and steal the purse that lies below the giant's pillow,
I would marry your second sister to my second son." And Molly said she
would try. So she set out for the giant's house, and slipped in, and hid
again below the bed, and waited till the giant had eaten his supper, and
was snoring sound asleep. She slipped out, and slipped her hand below
the pillow, and got out the purse; but just as she was going out the
giant wakened, and ran after her; and she ran, and he ran, till they
came to the "Bridge of one hair," and she got over, but he couldn't, and
he said, "Woe worth ye, Molly Whuppie! never you come again." "Once yet,
carle," quoth she, "I'll come to Spain." So Molly took the purse to the
king, and her second sister was married to the king's second son.

After that the king says to Molly: "Molly, you are a clever girl, but if
you would do better yet, and steal the giant's ring that he wears on his
finger, I will give you my youngest son for yourself." Molly said she
would try. So back she goes to the giant's house, and hides herself
below the bed. The giant wasn't long ere he came home, and, after he had
eaten a great big supper, he went to his bed, and shortly was snoring
loud. Molly crept out and reached over the bed, and got hold of the
giant's hand, and she pulled and she pulled until she got off the ring;
but just as she got it off the giant got up, and gripped her by the
hand, and he says: "Now I have catcht you, Molly Whuppie, and, if I had
done as much ill to you as ye have done to me, what would ye do to me?"

Molly says: "I would put you into a sack, and I'd put the cat inside
with you, and the dog aside you, and a needle and thread and a shears,
and I'd hang you up upon the wall, and I'd go to the wood, and choose
the thickest stick I could get, and I would come home, and take you
down, and bang you till you were dead."

"Well, Molly," says the giant, "I'll just do that to you."

So he gets a sack, and puts Molly into it, and the cat and the dog
beside her, and a needle and thread and shears, and hangs her up upon
the wall, and goes to the wood to choose a stick.

Molly she sings out: "Oh, if ye saw what I see."

"Oh," says the giant's wife, "what do ye see, Molly?"

But Molly never said a word but, "Oh, if ye saw what I see!"

The giant's wife begged that Molly would take her up into the sack till
she would see what Molly saw. So Molly took the shears and cut a hole in
the sack, and took out the needle and thread with her, and jumped down
and helped, the giant's wife up into the sack, and sewed up the hole.

The giant's wife saw nothing, and began to ask to get down again; but
Molly never minded, but hid herself at the back of the door. Home came
the giant, and a great big tree in his hand, and he took down the sack,
and began to batter it. His wife cried, "It's me, man;" but the dog
barked and the cat mewed, and he did not know his wife's voice. But
Molly came out from the back of the door, and the giant saw her, and he
after her; and he ran and she ran, till they came to the "Bridge of one
hair," and she got over but he couldn't; and he said, "Woe worth you,
Molly Whuppie! never you come again." "Never more, carle," quoth she,
"will I come again to Spain."

So Molly took the ring to the king, and she was married to his youngest
son, and she never saw the giant again.




THE RED ETTIN

There was once a widow that lived on a small bit of ground, which she
rented from a farmer. And she had two sons; and by-and-by it was time
for the wife to send them away to seek their fortune. So she told her
eldest son one day to take a can and bring her water from the well, that
she might bake a cake for him; and however much or however little water
he might bring, the cake would be great or small accordingly, and that
cake was to be all that she could give him when he went on his travels.

The lad went away with the can to the well, and filled it with water,
and then came away home again; but the can being broken, the most part
of the water had run out before he got back. So his cake was very small;
yet small as it was, his mother asked him if he was willing to take the
half of it with her blessing, telling him that, if he chose rather to
take the whole, he would only get it with her curse. The young man,
thinking he might have to travel a far way, and not knowing when or
how he might get other provisions, said he would like to have the whole
cake, come of his mother's malison what like; so she gave him the whole
cake, and her malison along with it. Then he took his brother aside, and
gave him a knife to keep till he should come back, desiring him to look
at it every morning, and as long as it continued to be clear, then he
might be sure that the owner of it was well; but if it grew dim and
rusty, then for certain some ill had befallen him.

So the young man went to seek his fortune. And he went all that day, and
all the next day; and on the third day, in the afternoon, he came up to
where a shepherd was sitting with a flock of sheep. And he went up to
the shepherd and asked him who the sheep belonged to; and he answered:

  "The Red Ettin of Ireland
    Once lived in Ballygan,
  And stole King Malcolm's daughter
    The king of fair Scotland.

  He beats her, he binds her,
    He lays her on a band;
  And every day he strikes her
    With a bright silver wand.
  Like Julian the Roman,
  He's one that fears no man.

  It's said there's one predestinate
    To be his mortal foe;
  But that man is yet unborn,
    And long may it be so."

This shepherd also told him to beware of the beasts he should next meet,
for they were of a very different kind from any he had yet seen.

So the young man went on, and by-and-by he saw a multitude of very
dreadful beasts, with two heads, and on every head four horns. And he
was sore frightened, and ran away from them as fast as he could; and
glad was he when he came to a castle that stood on a hillock, with the
door standing wide open to the wall. And he went into the castle for
shelter, and there he saw an old wife sitting beside the kitchen fire.
He asked the wife if he might stay for the night, as he was tired with
a long journey; and the wife said he might, but it was not a good
place for him to be in, as it belonged to the Red Ettin, who was a very
terrible beast, with three heads, that spared no living man it could get
hold of. The young man would have gone away, but he was afraid of the
beasts on the outside of the castle; so he beseeched the old woman to
hide him as best she could, and not tell the Ettin he was there. He
thought, if he could put over the night, he might get away in the
morning, without meeting with the beasts, and so escape. But he had not
been long in his hiding-hole, before the awful Ettin came in; and no
sooner was he in, than he was heard crying:

  "Snouk but and snouk ben,
  I find the smell of an earthly man,
  Be he living, or be he dead,
  His heart this night shall kitchen my bread."

The monster soon found the poor young man, and pulled him from his hole.
And when he had got him out, he told him that if he could answer him
three questions his life should be spared. So the first head asked: "A
thing without an end, what's that?" But the young man knew not. Then the
second head said: "The smaller, the more dangerous, what's that?" But
the young man knew it not. And then the third head asked: "The dead
carrying the living; riddle me that?" But the young man had to give it
up. The lad not being able to answer one of these questions, the Red
Ettin took a mallet and knocked him on the head, and turned him into a
pillar of stone.

On the morning after this happened, the younger brother took out the
knife to look at it, and he was grieved to find it all brown with rust.
He told his mother that the time was now come for him to go away upon
his travels also; so she requested him to take the can to the well for
water, that she might make a cake for him. And he went, and as he was
bringing home the water, a raven over his head cried to him to look, and
he would see that the water was running out. And he was a young man of
sense, and seeing the water running out, he took some clay and patched
up the holes, so that he brought home enough water to bake a large cake.
When his mother put it to him to take the half cake with her blessing,
he took it in preference to having the whole with her malison; and yet
the half was bigger than what the other lad had got.

So he went away on his journey; and after he had travelled a far way, he
met with an old woman that asked him if he would give her a bit of his
johnny-cake. And he said: "I will gladly do that," and so he gave her a
piece of the johnny-cake; and for that she gave him a magical wand, that
she might yet be of service to him, if he took care to use it rightly.
Then the old woman, who was a fairy, told him a great deal that would
happen to him, and what he ought to do in all circumstances; and after
that she vanished in an instant out of his sight. He went on a great way
farther, and then he came up to the old man herding the sheep; and when
he asked whose sheep these were, the answer was:

  "The Red Ettin of Ireland
    Once lived in Ballygan,
  And stole King Malcolm's daughter,
    The king of Fair Scotland.

  "He beats her, he binds her,
    He lays her on a band;
  And every day he strikes her
    With a bright silver wand.
  Like Julian the Roman,
  He's one that fears no man.

  "But now I fear his end is near,
    And destiny at hand;
  And you're to be, I plainly see,
    The heir of all his land."

When he came to the place where the monstrous beasts were standing, he
did not stop nor run away, but went boldly through amongst them. One
came up roaring with open mouth to devour him, when he struck it with
his wand, and laid it in an instant dead at his feet. He soon came to
the Ettin's castle, where he knocked, and was admitted. The old woman
who sat by the fire warned him of the terrible Ettin, and what had been
the fate of his brother; but he was not to be daunted. The monster soon
came in, saying:

  "Snouk but and snouk ben,
  I find the smell of an earthly man;
  Be he living, or be he dead,
  His heart shall be kitchen to my bread."

He quickly espied the young man, and bade him come forth on the floor.
And then he put the three questions to him; but the young man had been
told everything by the good fairy, so he was able to answer all the
questions. So when the first head asked, "What's the thing without an
end?" he said: "A bowl." And when the second head said: "The smaller the
more dangerous; what's that?" he said at once, "A bridge." And last, the
third head said: "When does the dead carry the living, riddle me that?"
Then the young man answered up at once and said: "When a ship sails on
the sea with men inside her." When the Ettin found this, he knew that
his power was gone. The young man then took up an axe and hewed off the
monster's three heads. He next asked the old woman to show him where the
king's daughter lay; and the old woman took him upstairs, and opened a
great many doors, and out of every door came a beautiful lady who had
been imprisoned there by the Ettin; and one of the ladies was the king's
daughter. She also took him down into a low room, and there stood a
stone pillar, that he had only to touch with his wand, when his brother
started into life. And the whole of the prisoners were overjoyed at
their deliverance, for which they thanked the young man. Next day they
all set out for the king's court, and a gallant company they made. And
the king married his daughter to the young man that had delivered
her, and gave a noble's daughter to his brother; and so they all lived
happily all the rest of their days.




THE GOLDEN ARM

Here was once a man who travelled the land all over in search of a wife.
He saw young and old, rich and poor, pretty and plain, and could not
meet with one to his mind. At last he found a woman, young, fair, and
rich, who possessed a right arm of solid gold. He married her at once,
and thought no man so fortunate as he was. They lived happily together,
but, though he wished people to think otherwise, he was fonder of the
golden arm than of all his wife's gifts besides.

At last she died. The husband put on the blackest black, and pulled the
longest face at the funeral; but for all that he got up in the middle of
the night, dug up the body, and cut off the golden arm. He hurried home
to hide his treasure, and thought no one would know.

The following night he put the golden arm under his pillow, and was just
falling asleep, when the ghost of his dead wife glided into the room.
Stalking up to the bedside it drew the curtain, and looked at him
reproachfully. Pretending not to be afraid, he spoke to the ghost, and
said: "What hast thou done with thy cheeks so red?"

"All withered and wasted away," replied the ghost, in a hollow tone.

"What hast thou done with thy red rosy lips?"

"All withered and wasted away."

"What hast thou done with thy golden hair?"

"All withered and wasted away."

"What hast thou done with thy _Golden Arm_?"

"THOU HAST IT!"




THE HISTORY OF TOM THUMB

In the days of the great Prince Arthur, there lived a mighty magician,
called Merlin, the most learned and skilful enchanter the world has ever
seen.

This famous magician, who could take any form he pleased, was travelling
about as a poor beggar, and being very tired, he stopped at the cottage
of a ploughman to rest himself, and asked for some food.

The countryman bade him welcome, and his wife, who was a very
good-hearted woman, soon brought him some milk in a wooden bowl, and
some coarse brown bread on a platter.

Merlin was much pleased with the kindness of the ploughman and his
wife; but he could not help noticing that though everything was neat
and comfortable in the cottage, they seemed both to be very unhappy. He
therefore asked them why they were so melancholy, and learned that they
were miserable because they had no children.

The poor woman said, with tears in her eyes: "I should be the happiest
creature in the world if I had a son; although he was no bigger than my
husband's thumb, I would be satisfied."

Merlin was so much amused with the idea of a boy no bigger than a man's
thumb, that he determined to grant the poor woman's wish. Accordingly,
in a short time after, the ploughman's wife had a son, who, wonderful to
relate! was not a bit bigger than his father's thumb.

The queen of the fairies, wishing to see the little fellow, came in at
the window while the mother was sitting up in the bed admiring him. The
queen kissed the child, and, giving it the name of Tom Thumb, sent for
some of the fairies, who dressed her little godson according to her
orders:

  "An oak-leaf hat he had for his crown;
  His shirt of web by spiders spun;
  With jacket wove of thistle's down;
  His trowsers were of feathers done.
  His stockings, of apple-rind, they tie
  With eyelash from his mother's eye
  His shoes were made of mouse's skin,
  Tann'd with the downy hair within."

Tom never grew any larger than his father's thumb, which was only of
ordinary size; but as he got older he became very cunning and full of
tricks. When he was old enough to play with the boys, and had lost
all his own cherry-stones, he used to creep into the bags of his
playfellows, fill his pockets, and, getting out without their noticing
him, would again join in the game.

One day, however, as he was coming out of a bag of cherry-stones, where
he had been stealing as usual, the boy to whom it belonged chanced to
see him. "Ah, ah! my little Tommy," said the boy, "so I have caught you
stealing my cherry-stones at last, and you shall be rewarded for your
thievish tricks." On saying this, he drew the string tight round his
neck, and gave the bag such a hearty shake, that poor little Tom's legs,
thighs, and body were sadly bruised. He roared out with pain, and begged
to be let out, promising never to steal again.

A short time afterwards his mother was making a batter-pudding, and Tom,
being very anxious to see how it was made, climbed up to the edge of the
bowl; but his foot slipped, and he plumped over head and ears into
the batter, without his mother noticing him, who stirred him into the
pudding-bag, and put him in the pot to boil.

The batter filled Tom's mouth, and prevented him from crying; but, on
feeling the hot water, he kicked and struggled so much in the pot, that
his mother thought that the pudding was bewitched, and, pulling it
out of the pot, she threw it outside the door. A poor tinker, who was
passing by, lifted up the pudding, and, putting it into his budget, he
then walked off. As Tom had now got his mouth cleared of the batter, he
then began to cry aloud, which so frightened the tinker that he flung
down the pudding and ran away. The pudding being broke to pieces by the
fall, Tom crept out covered all over with the batter, and walked home.
His mother, who was very sorry to see her darling in such a woeful
state, put him into a teacup, and soon washed off the batter; after
which she kissed him, and laid him in bed.

Soon after the adventure of the pudding, Tom's mother went to milk her
cow in the meadow, and she took him along with her. As the wind was very
high, for fear of being blown away, she tied him to a thistle with a
piece of fine thread. The cow soon observed Tom's oak-leaf hat, and
liking the appearance of it, took poor Tom and the thistle at one
mouthful. While the cow was chewing the thistle Tom was afraid of her
great teeth, which threatened to crush him in pieces, and he roared out
as loud as he could: "Mother, mother!"

"Where are you, Tommy, my dear Tommy?" said his mother.

"Here, mother," replied he, "in the red cow's mouth."

His mother began to cry and wring her hands; but the cow, surprised
at the odd noise in her throat, opened her mouth and let Tom drop out.
Fortunately his mother caught him in her apron as he was falling to the
ground, or he would have been dreadfully hurt. She then put Tom in her
bosom and ran home with him.

Tom's father made him a whip of a barley straw to drive the cattle with,
and having one day gone into the fields, he slipped a foot and rolled
into the furrow. A raven, which was flying over, picked him up, and flew
with him over the sea, and there dropped him.

A large fish swallowed Tom the moment he fell into the sea, which was
soon after caught, and bought for the table of King Arthur. When they
opened the fish in order to cook it, every one was astonished at finding
such a little boy, and Tom was quite delighted at being free again.
They carried him to the king, who made Tom his dwarf, and he soon grew
a great favourite at court; for by his tricks and gambols he not only
amused the king and queen, but also all the Knights of the Round Table.

It is said that when the king rode out on horseback, he often took
Tom along with him, and if a shower came on, he used to creep into his
majesty's waistcoat-pocket, where he slept till the rain was over.

King Arthur one day asked Tom about his parents, wishing to know if they
were as small as he was, and whether they were well off. Tom told the
king that his father and mother were as tall as anybody about the court,
but in rather poor circumstances. On hearing this, the king carried Tom
to his treasury, the place where he kept all his money, and told him to
take as much money as he could carry home to his parents, which made
the poor little fellow caper with joy. Tom went immediately to procure
a purse, which was made of a water-bubble, and then returned to the
treasury, where he received a silver threepenny-piece to put into it.

Our little hero had some difficulty in lifting the burden upon his
back; but he at last succeeded in getting it placed to his mind, and set
forward on his journey. However, without meeting with any accident, and
after resting himself more than a hundred times by the way, in two days
and two nights he reached his father's house in safety.

Tom had travelled forty-eight hours with a huge silver-piece on his
back, and was almost tired to death, when his mother ran out to meet
him, and carried him into the house. But he soon returned to Court.

As Tom's clothes had suffered much in the batter-pudding, and the inside
of the fish, his majesty ordered him a new suit of clothes, and to be
mounted as a knight on a mouse.

  Of Butterfly's wings his shirt was made,
    His boots of chicken's hide;
  And by a nimble fairy blade,
  Well learned in the tailoring trade,
    His clothing was supplied.
  A needle dangled by his side;
  A dapper mouse he used to ride,
  Thus strutted Tom in stately pride!

It was certainly very diverting to see Tom in this dress and mounted on
the mouse, as he rode out a-hunting with the king and nobility, who were
all ready to expire with laughter at Tom and his fine prancing charger.

The king was so charmed with his address that he ordered a little chair
to be made, in order that Tom might sit upon his table, and also a
palace of gold, a span high, with a door an inch wide, to live in. He
also gave him a coach, drawn by six small mice.

The queen was so enraged at the honours conferred on Sir Thomas that she
resolved to ruin him, and told the king that the little knight had been
saucy to her.

The king sent for Tom in great haste, but being fully aware of the
danger of royal anger, he crept into an empty snail-shell, where he lay
for a long time until he was almost starved with hunger; but at last he
ventured to peep out, and seeing a fine large butterfly on the ground,
near the place of his concealment, he got close to it and jumping
astride on it, was carried up into the air. The butterfly flew with him
from tree to tree and from field to field, and at last returned to the
court, where the king and nobility all strove to catch him; but at last
poor Tom fell from his seat into a watering-pot, in which he was almost
drowned.

When the queen saw him she was in a rage, and said he should be
beheaded; and he was again put into a mouse trap until the time of his
execution.

However a cat, observing something alive in the trap, patted it about
till the wires broke, and set Thomas at liberty.

The king received Tom again into favour, which he did not live to enjoy,
for a large spider one day attacked him; and although he drew his sword
and fought well, yet the spider's poisonous breath at last overcame him.

  He fell dead on the ground where he stood,
  And the spider suck'd every drop of his blood.

King Arthur and his whole court were so sorry at the loss of their
little favourite that they went into mourning and raised a fine white
marble monument over his grave with the following epitaph:

  Here lies Tom Thumb, King Arthur's knight,
  Who died by a spider's cruel bite.
  He was well known in Arthur's court,
  Where he afforded gallant sport;
  He rode at tilt and tournament,
  And on a mouse a-hunting went.
  Alive he filled the court with mirth;
  His death to sorrow soon gave birth.
  Wipe, wipe your eyes, and shake your head
  And cry,--Alas! Tom Thumb is dead!




MR. FOX

Lady Mary was young, and Lady Mary was fair. She had two brothers, and
more lovers than she could count. But of them all, the bravest and most
gallant, was a Mr. Fox, whom she met when she was down at her father's
country-house. No one knew who Mr. Fox was; but he was certainly brave,
and surely rich, and of all her lovers, Lady Mary cared for him alone.
At last it was agreed upon between them that they should be married.
Lady Mary asked Mr. Fox where they should live, and he described to her
his castle, and where it was; but, strange to say, did not ask her, or
her brothers to come and see it.

So one day, near the wedding-day, when her brothers were out, and Mr.
Fox was away for a day or two on business, as he said, Lady Mary set out
for Mr. Fox's castle. And after many searchings, she came at last to
it, and a fine strong house it was, with high walls and a deep moat. And
when she came up to the gateway she saw written on it:

BE BOLD, BE BOLD.

But as the gate was open, she went through it, and found no one there.
So she went up to the doorway, and over it she found written:

BE BOLD, BE BOLD, BUT NOT TOO BOLD.

Still she went on, till she came into the hall, and went up the broad
stairs till she came to a door in the gallery, over which was written:

BE BOLD, BE BOLD, BUT NOT TOO BOLD, LEST THAT YOUR HEART'S BLOOD SHOULD
RUN COLD.

But Lady Mary was a brave one, she was, and she opened the door, and
what do you think she saw? Why, bodies and skeletons of beautiful young
ladies all stained with blood. So Lady Mary thought it was high time to
get out of that horrid place, and she closed the door, went through the
gallery, and was just going down the stairs, and out of the hall, when
who should she see through the window, but Mr. Fox dragging a beautiful
young lady along from the gateway to the door. Lady Mary rushed
downstairs, and hid herself behind a cask, just in time, as Mr. Fox came
in with the poor young lady who seemed to have fainted. Just as he got
near Lady Mary, Mr. Fox saw a diamond ring glittering on the finger of
the young lady he was dragging, and he tried to pull it off. But it was
tightly fixed, and would not come off, so Mr. Fox cursed and swore, and
drew his sword, raised it, and brought it down upon the hand of the poor
lady. The sword cut off the hand, which jumped up into the air, and fell
of all places in the world into Lady Mary's lap. Mr. Fox looked about a
bit, but did not think of looking behind the cask, so at last he went on
dragging the young lady up the stairs into the Bloody Chamber.

As soon as she heard him pass through the gallery, Lady Mary crept
out of the door, down through the gateway, and ran home as fast as she
could.

Now it happened that the very next day the marriage contract of Lady
Mary and Mr. Fox was to be signed, and there was a splendid breakfast
before that. And when Mr. Fox was seated at table opposite Lady Mary,
he looked at her. "How pale you are this morning, my dear." "Yes,"
said she, "I had a bad night's rest last night. I had horrible dreams."
"Dreams go by contraries," said Mr. Fox; "but tell us your dream, and
your sweet voice will make the time pass till the happy hour comes."

"I dreamed," said Lady Mary, "that I went yestermorn to your castle, and
I found it in the woods, with high walls, and a deep moat, and over the
gateway was written:

BE BOLD, BE BOLD.

"But it is not so, nor it was not so," said Mr. Fox.

"And when I came to the doorway over it was written:

BE BOLD, BE BOLD, BUT NOT TOO BOLD.

"It is not so, nor it was not so," said Mr. Fox.

"And then I went upstairs, and came to a gallery, at the end of which
was a door, on which was written:

BE BOLD, BE BOLD, BUT NOT TOO BOLD, LEST THAT YOUR HEART'S BLOOD SHOULD
RUN COLD.

"It is not so, nor it was not so," said Mr. Fox.

"And then--and then I opened the door, and the room was filled with
bodies and skeletons of poor dead women, all stained with their blood."

"It is not so, nor it was not so. And God forbid it should be so," said
Mr. Fox.

"I then dreamed that I rushed down the gallery, and just as I was
going down the stairs, I saw you, Mr. Fox, coming up to the hall door,
dragging after you a poor young lady, rich and beautiful."

"It is not so, nor it was not so. And God forbid it should be so," said
Mr. Fox.

"I rushed downstairs, just in time to hide myself behind a cask, when
you, Mr. Fox, came in dragging the young lady by the arm. And, as you
passed me, Mr. Fox, I thought I saw you try and get off her diamond
ring, and when you could not, Mr. Fox, it seemed to me in my dream, that
you out with your sword and hacked off the poor lady's hand to get the
ring."

"It is not so, nor it was not so. And God forbid it should be so," said
Mr. Fox, and was going to say something else as he rose from his seat,
when Lady Mary cried out:

"But it is so, and it was so. Here's hand and ring I have to show," and
pulled out the lady's hand from her dress, and pointed it straight at
Mr. Fox.

At once her brothers and her friends drew their swords and cut Mr. Fox
into a thousand pieces.




LAZY JACK

Once upon a time there was a boy whose name was Jack, and he lived with
his mother on a common. They were very poor, and the old woman got her
living by spinning, but Jack was so lazy that he would do nothing but
bask in the sun in the hot weather, and sit by the corner of the hearth
in the winter-time. So they called him Lazy Jack. His mother could not
get him to do anything for her, and at last told him, one Monday, that
if he did not begin to work for his porridge she would turn him out to
get his living as he could.

This roused Jack, and he went out and hired himself for the next day
to a neighbouring farmer for a penny; but as he was coming home, never
having had any money before, he lost it in passing over a brook. "You
stupid boy," said his mother, "you should have put it in your pocket."
"I'll do so another time," replied Jack.

On Wednesday, Jack went out again and hired himself to a cow-keeper, who
gave him a jar of milk for his day's work. Jack took the jar and put it
into the large pocket of his jacket, spilling it all, long before he got
home. "Dear me!" said the old woman; "you should have carried it on your
head." "I'll do so another time," said Jack.

So on Thursday, Jack hired himself again to a farmer, who agreed to
give him a cream cheese for his services. In the evening Jack took the
cheese, and went home with it on his head. By the time he got home the
cheese was all spoilt, part of it being lost, and part matted with his
hair. "You stupid lout," said his mother, "you should have carried it
very carefully in your hands." "I'll do so another time," replied Jack.

On Friday, Lazy Jack again went out, and hired himself to a baker, who
would give him nothing for his work but a large tom-cat. Jack took the
cat, and began carrying it very carefully in his hands, but in a short
time pussy scratched him so much that he was compelled to let it go.
When he got home, his mother said to him, "You silly fellow, you should
have tied it with a string, and dragged it along after you." "I'll do so
another time," said Jack.

So on Saturday, Jack hired himself to a butcher, who rewarded him by the
handsome present of a shoulder of mutton. Jack took the mutton, tied it
to a string, and trailed it along after him in the dirt, so that by the
time he had got home the meat was completely spoilt. His mother was this
time quite out of patience with him, for the next day was Sunday,
and she was obliged to make do with cabbage for her dinner. "You
ninney-hammer," said she to her son; "you should have carried it on your
shoulder." "I'll do so another time," replied Jack.

On the next Monday, Lazy Jack went once more, and hired himself to a
cattle-keeper, who gave him a donkey for his trouble. Jack found it hard
to hoist the donkey on his shoulders, but at last he did it, and began
walking slowly home with his prize. Now it happened that in the
course of his journey there lived a rich man with his only daughter,
a beautiful girl, but deaf and dumb. Now she had never laughed in her
life, and the doctors said she would never speak till somebody made her
laugh. This young lady happened to be looking out of the window when
Jack was passing with the donkey on his shoulders, with the legs
sticking up in the air, and the sight was so comical and strange that
she burst out into a great fit of laughter, and immediately recovered
her speech and hearing. Her father was overjoyed, and fulfilled
his promise by marrying her to Lazy Jack, who was thus made a rich
gentleman. They lived in a large house, and Jack's mother lived with
them in great happiness until she died.




JOHNNY-CAKE

Once upon a time there was an old man, and an old woman, and a little
boy. One morning the old woman made a Johnny-cake, and put it in the
oven to bake. "You watch the Johnny-cake while your father and I go out
to work in the garden." So the old man and the old woman went out and
began to hoe potatoes, and left the little boy to tend the oven. But he
didn't watch it all the time, and all of a sudden he heard a noise, and
he looked up and the oven door popped open, and out of the oven jumped
Johnny-cake, and went rolling along end over end, towards the open door
of the house. The little boy ran to shut the door, but Johnny-cake was
too quick for him and rolled through the door, down the steps, and out
into the road long before the little boy could catch him. The little boy
ran after him as fast as he could clip it, crying out to his father and
mother, who heard the uproar, and threw down their hoes and gave chase
too. But Johnny-cake outran all three a long way, and was soon out of
sight, while they had to sit down, all out of breath, on a bank to rest.

On went Johnny-cake, and by-and-by he came to two well-diggers who
looked up from their work and called out: "Where ye going, Johnny-cake?"

He said: "I've outrun an old man, and an old woman, and a little boy,
and I can outrun you too-o-o!"

"Ye can, can ye? we'll see about that?" said they; and they threw down
their picks and ran after him, but couldn't catch up with him, and soon
they had to sit down by the roadside to rest.

On ran Johnny-cake, and by-and-by he came to two ditch-diggers who were
digging a ditch. "Where ye going, Johnny-cake?" said they. He said:
"I've outrun an old man, and an old woman, and a little boy, and two
well-diggers, and I can outrun you too-o-o!"

"Ye can, can ye? we'll see about that!" said they; and they threw down
their spades, and ran after him too. But Johnny-cake soon outstripped
them also, and seeing they could never catch him, they gave up the chase
and sat down to rest.

On went Johnny-cake, and by-and-by he came to a bear. The bear said:
"Where are ye going, Johnny-cake?"

He said: "I've outrun an old man, and an old woman and a little boy, and
two well-diggers, and two ditch-diggers, and I can outrun you too-o-o!"

"Ye can, can ye?" growled the bear, "we'll see about that!" and trotted
as fast as his legs could carry him after Johnny-cake, who never stopped
to look behind him. Before long the bear was left so far behind that
he saw he might as well give up the hunt first as last, so he stretched
himself out by the roadside to rest.

On went Johnny-cake, and by-and-by he came to a wolf. The wolf
said:--"Where ye going, Johnny-cake?" He said: "I've outrun an old
man, and an old woman, and a little boy, and two well-diggers, and two
ditch-diggers and a bear, and I can outrun you too-o-o!"

"Ye can, can ye?" snarled the wolf, "we'll see about that!" And he set
into a gallop after Johnny-cake, who went on and on so fast that the
wolf too saw there was no hope of overtaking him, and he too lay down to
rest.

On went Johnny-cake, and by-and-by he came to a fox that lay quietly in
a corner of the fence. The fox called out in a sharp voice, but without
getting up: "Where ye going Johnny-cake?"

He said: "I've outrun an old man, and an old woman, and a little boy,
and two well-diggers, and two ditch-diggers, a bear, and a wolf, and I
can outrun you too-o-o!"

The fox said: "I can't quite hear you, Johnny-cake, won't you come a
little closer?" turning his head a little to one side.

Johnny-cake stopped his race for the first time, and went a little
closer, and called out in a very loud voice _"I've outrun an old man,
and an old woman, and a little boy, and two well-diggers, and two
ditch-diggers, and a bear, and a wolf, and I can outrun you too-o-o."_

"Can't quite hear you; won't you come a _little_ closer?" said the fox
in a feeble voice, as he stretched out his neck towards Johnny-cake, and
put one paw behind his ear.

Johnny-cake came up close, and leaning towards the fox screamed out:
I'VE OUTRUN AN OLD MAN, AND AN OLD WOMAN, AND A LITTLE BOY, AND TWO
WELL-DIGGERS, AND TWO DITCH-DIGGERS, AND A BEAR, AND A WOLF, AND I CAN
OUTRUN YOU TOO-O-O!"

"You can, can you?" yelped the fox, and he snapped up the Johnny-cake in
his sharp teeth in the twinkling of an eye.




EARL MAR'S DAUGHTER

One fine summer's day Earl Mar's daughter went into the castle garden,
dancing and tripping along. And as she played and sported she would stop
from time to time to listen to the music of the birds. After a while as
she sat under the shade of a green oak tree she looked up and spied a
sprightly dove sitting high up on one of its branches. She looked up
and said: "Coo-my-dove, my dear, come down to me and I will give you a
golden cage. I'll take you home and pet you well, as well as any bird
of them all." Scarcely had she said these words when the dove flew down
from the branch and settled on her shoulder, nestling up against her
neck while she smoothed its feathers. Then she took it home to her own
room.

The day was done and the night came on and Earl Mar's daughter was
thinking of going to sleep when, turning round, she found at her side a
handsome young man. She _was_ startled, for the door had been locked
for hours. But she was a brave girl and said: "What are you doing here,
young man, to come and startle me so? The door was barred these hours
ago; how ever did you come here?"

"Hush! hush!" the young man whispered. "I was that cooing dove that you
coaxed from off the tree."

"But who are you then?" she said quite low; "and how came you to be
changed into that dear little bird?"

"My name is Florentine, and my mother is a queen, and something more
than a queen, for she knows magic and spells, and because I would not do
as she wished she turned me into a dove by day, but at night her spells
lose their power and I become a man again. To-day I crossed the sea and
saw you for the first time and I was glad to be a bird that I could come
near you. Unless you love me, I shall never be happy more."

"But if I love you," says she, "will you not fly away and leave me one
of these fine days?"

"Never, never," said the prince; "be my wife and I'll be yours for ever.
By day a bird, by night a prince, I will always be by your side as a
husband, dear."

So they were married in secret and lived happily in the castle and no
one knew that every night Coo-my-dove became Prince Florentine. And
every year a little son came to them as bonny as bonny could be. But as
each son was born Prince Florentine carried the little thing away on
his back over the sea to where the queen his mother lived and left the
little one with her.

Seven years passed thus and then a great trouble came to them. For the
Earl Mar wished to marry his daughter to a noble of high degree who came
wooing her. Her father pressed her sore but she said: "Father dear, I do
not wish to marry; I can be quite happy with Coo-my-dove here."

Then her father got into a mighty rage and swore a great big oath, and
said: "To-morrow, so sure as I live and eat, I'll twist that birdie's
neck," and out he stamped from her room.

"Oh, oh!" said Coo-my-dove; "it's time that I was away," and so he
jumped upon the window-sill and in a moment was flying away. And he flew
and he flew till he was over the deep, deep sea, and yet on he flew till
he came to his mother's castle. Now the queen his mother was taking her
walk abroad when she saw the pretty dove flying overhead and alighting
on the castle walls.

"Here, dancers come and dance your jigs," she called, "and pipers, pipe
you well, for here's my own Florentine, come back to me to stay for he's
brought no bonny boy with him this time."

"No, mother," said Florentine, "no dancers for me and no minstrels, for
my dear wife, the mother of my seven, boys, is to be wed to-morrow, and
sad's the day for me."

"What can I do, my son?" said the queen, "tell me, and it shall be done
if my magic has power to do it."

"Well then, mother dear, turn the twenty-four dancers and pipers into
twenty-four grey herons, and let my seven sons become seven white swans,
and let me be a goshawk and their leader."

"Alas! alas! my son," she said, "that may not be; my magic reaches
not so far. But perhaps my teacher, the spaewife of Ostree, may know
better." And away she hurries to the cave of Ostree, and after a while
comes out as white as white can be and muttering over some burning herbs
she brought out of the cave. Suddenly Coo-my-dove changed into a goshawk
and around him flew twenty-four grey herons and above them flew seven
cygnets.

Without a word or a good-bye off they flew over the deep blue sea which
was tossing and moaning. They flew and they flew till they swooped down
on Earl Mar's castle just as the wedding party were setting out for the
church. First came the men-at-arms and then the bridegroom's friends,
and then Earl Mar's men, and then the bridegroom, and lastly, pale
and beautiful, Earl Mar's daughter herself. They moved down slowly to
stately music till they came past the trees on which the birds were
settling. A word from Prince Florentine, the goshawk, and they all rose
into the air, herons beneath, cygnets above, and goshawk circling above
all. The weddineers wondered at the sight when, swoop! the herons were
down among them scattering the men-at-arms. The swanlets took charge
of the bride while the goshawk dashed down and tied the bridegroom to a
tree. Then the herons gathered themselves together into one feather bed
and the cygnets placed their mother upon them, and suddenly they all
rose in the air bearing the bride away with them in safety towards
Prince Florentine's home. Surely a wedding party was never so disturbed
in this world. What could the weddineers do? They saw their pretty bride
carried away and away till she and the herons and the swans and the
goshawk disappeared, and that very day Prince Florentine brought Earl
Mar's daughter to the castle of the queen his mother, who took the spell
off him and they lived happy ever afterwards.




MR. MIACCA

Tommy Grimes was sometimes a good boy, and sometimes a bad boy; and when
he was a bad boy, he was a very bad boy. Now his mother used to say to
him: "Tommy, Tommy, be a good boy, and don't go out of the street, or
else Mr. Miacca will take you." But still when he was a bad boy he would
go out of the street; and one day, sure enough, he had scarcely got
round the corner, when Mr. Miacca did catch him and popped him into a
bag upside down, and took him off to his house.

When Mr. Miacca got Tommy inside, he pulled him out of the bag and set
him down, and felt his arms and legs. "You're rather tough," says he;
"but you're all I've got for supper, and you'll not taste bad boiled.
But body o' me, I've forgot the herbs, and it's bitter you'll taste
without herbs. Sally! Here, I say, Sally!" and he called Mrs. Miacca.

So Mrs. Miacca came out of another room and said: "What d'ye want, my
dear?"

"Oh, here's a little boy for supper," said Mr. Miacca, "and I've forgot
the herbs. Mind him, will ye, while I go for them."

"All right, my love," says Mrs. Miacca, and off he goes.

Then Tommy Grimes said to Mrs. Miacca: "Does Mr. Miacca always have
little boys for supper?"

"Mostly, my dear," said Mrs. Miacca, "if little boys are bad enough, and
get in his way."

"And don't you have anything else but boy-meat? No pudding?" asked
Tommy.

"Ah, I loves pudding," says Mrs. Miacca. "But it's not often the likes
of me gets pudding."

"Why, my mother is making a pudding this very day," said Tommy Grimes,
"and I am sure she'd give you some, if I ask her. Shall I run and get
some?"

"Now, that's a thoughtful boy," said Mrs. Miacca, "only don't be long
and be sure to be back for supper."

So off Tommy pelters, and right glad he was to get off so cheap; and for
many a long day he was as good as good could be, and never went round
the corner of the street. But he couldn't always be good; and one day he
went round the corner, and as luck would have it, he hadn't scarcely got
round it when Mr. Miacca grabbed him up, popped him in his bag, and took
him home.

When he got him there, Mr. Miacca dropped him out; and when he saw him,
he said: "Ah, you're the youngster what served me and my missus that
shabby trick, leaving us without any supper. Well, you shan't do it
again. I'll watch over you myself. Here, get under the sofa, and I'll
set on it and watch the pot boil for you."

So poor Tommy Grimes had to creep under the sofa, and Mr. Miacca sat on
it and waited for the pot to boil. And they waited, and they waited, but
still the pot didn't boil, till at last Mr. Miacca got tired of waiting,
and he said: "Here, you under there, I'm not going to wait any longer;
put out your leg, and I'll stop your giving us the slip."

So Tommy put out a leg, and Mr. Miacca got a chopper, and chopped it
off, and pops it in the pot.

Suddenly he calls out: "Sally, my dear, Sally!" and nobody answered. So
he went into the next room to look out for Mrs. Miacca, and while he was
there, Tommy crept out from under the sofa and ran out of the door. For
it was a leg of the sofa that he had put out.

So Tommy Grimes ran home, and he never went round the corner again till
he was old enough to go alone.




WHITTINGTON AND HIS CAT

In the reign of the famous King Edward III. there was a little boy
called Dick Whittington, whose father and mother died when he was very
young. As poor Dick was not old enough to work, he was very badly off;
he got but little for his dinner, and sometimes nothing at all for
his breakfast; for the people who lived in the village were very poor
indeed, and could not spare him much more than the parings of potatoes,
and now and then a hard crust of bread.

Now Dick had heard a great many very strange things about the great city
called London; for the country people at that time thought that folks
in London were all fine gentlemen and ladies; and that there was singing
and music there all day long; and that the streets were all paved with
gold.

One day a large waggon and eight horses, all with bells at their heads,
drove through the village while Dick was standing by the sign-post. He
thought that this waggon must be going to the fine town of London; so
he took courage, and asked the waggoner to let him walk with him by the
side of the waggon. As soon as the waggoner heard that poor Dick had
no father or mother, and saw by his ragged clothes that he could not be
worse off than he was, he told him he might go if he would, so off they
set together.

So Dick got safe to London, and was in such a hurry to see the fine
streets paved all over with gold, that he did not even stay to thank the
kind waggoner; but ran off as fast as his legs would carry him, through
many of the streets, thinking every moment to come to those that were
paved with gold; for Dick had seen a guinea three times in his own
little village, and remembered what a deal of money it brought in
change; so he thought he had nothing to do but to take up some little
bits of the pavement, and should then have as much money as he could
wish for.

Poor Dick ran till he was tired, and had quite forgot his friend the
waggoner; but at last, finding it grow dark, and that every way he
turned he saw nothing but dirt instead of gold, he, sat down in a dark
corner and cried himself to sleep.

Little Dick was all night in the streets; and next morning, being very
hungry, he got up and walked about, and asked everybody he met to give
him a halfpenny to keep him from starving; but nobody stayed to answer
him, and only two or three gave him a halfpenny; so that the poor boy
was soon quite weak and faint for the want of victuals.

In this distress he asked charity of several people, and one of them
said crossly: "Go to work, for an idle rogue." "That I will," says Dick,
"I will to go work for you, if you will let me." But the man only cursed
at him and went on.

At last a good-natured looking gentleman saw how hungry he looked. "Why
don't you go to work my lad?" said he to Dick. "That I would, but I do
not know how to get any," answered Dick. "If you are willing, come along
with me," said the gentleman, and took him to a hay-field, where Dick
worked briskly, and lived merrily till the hay was made.

After this he found himself as badly off as before; and being almost
starved again, he laid himself down at the door of Mr. Fitzwarren,
a rich merchant. Here he was soon seen by the cook-maid, who was an
ill-tempered creature, and happened just then to be very busy dressing
dinner for her master and mistress; so she called out to poor Dick:
"What business have you there, you lazy rogue? there is nothing else but
beggars; if you do not take yourself away, we will see how you will like
a sousing of some dish-water; I have some here hot enough to make you
jump."

Just at that time Mr. Fitzwarren himself came home to dinner; and when
he saw a dirty ragged boy lying at the door, he said to him: "Why do
you lie there, my boy? You seem old enough to work; I am afraid you are
inclined to be lazy."

"No, indeed, sir," said Dick to him, "that is not the case, for I would
work with all my heart, but I do not know anybody, and I believe I am
very sick for the want of food."

"Poor fellow, get up; let me see what ails you." Dick now tried to rise,
but was obliged to lie down again, being too weak to stand, for he had
not eaten any food for three days, and was no longer able to run about
and beg a halfpenny of people in the street. So the kind merchant
ordered him to be taken into the house, and have a good dinner given
him, and be kept to do what work he was able to do for the cook.

Little Dick would have lived very happy in this good family if it had
not been for the ill-natured cook. She used to say: "You are under me,
so look sharp; clean the spit and the dripping-pan, make the fires, wind
up the jack, and do all the scullery work nimbly, or--" and she would
shake the ladle at him. Besides, she was so fond of basting, that when
she had no meat to baste, she would baste poor Dick's head and shoulders
with a broom, or anything else that happened to fall in her way. At last
her ill-usage of him was told to Alice, Mr. Fitzwarren's daughter, who
told the cook she should be turned away if she did not treat him kinder.

The behaviour of the cook was now a little better; but besides this Dick
had another hardship to get over. His bed stood in a garret, where there
were so many holes in the floor and the walls that every night he was
tormented with rats and mice. A gentleman having given Dick a penny for
cleaning his shoes, he thought he would buy a cat with it. The next day
he saw a girl with a cat, and asked her, "Will you let me have that cat
for a penny?" The girl said: "Yes, that I will, master, though she is an
excellent mouser."

Dick hid his cat in the garret, and always took care to carry a part of
his dinner to her; and in a short time he had no more trouble with the
rats and mice, but slept quite sound every night.

Soon after this, his master had a ship ready to sail; and as it was the
custom that all his servants should have some chance for good fortune as
well as himself, he called them all into the parlour and asked them what
they would send out.

They all had something that they were willing to venture except poor
Dick, who had neither money nor goods, and therefore could send nothing.
For this reason he did not come into the parlour with the rest; but Miss
Alice guessed what was the matter, and ordered him to be called in. She
then said: "I will lay down some money for him, from my own purse;" but
her father told her: "This will not do, for it must be something of his
own."

When poor Dick heard this, he said: "I have nothing but a cat which I
bought for a penny some time since of a little girl."

"Fetch your cat then, my lad," said Mr. Fitzwarren, "and let her go."

Dick went upstairs and brought down poor puss, with tears in his eyes,
and gave her to the captain; "For," he said, "I shall now be kept awake
all night by the rats and mice." All the company laughed at Dick's odd
venture; and Miss Alice, who felt pity for him, gave him some money to
buy another cat.

This, and many other marks of kindness shown him by Miss Alice, made the
ill-tempered cook jealous of poor Dick, and she began to use him more
cruelly than ever, and always made game of him for sending his cat to
sea.

She asked him: "Do you think your cat will sell for as much money as
would buy a stick to beat you?"

At last poor Dick could not bear this usage any longer, and he thought
he would run away from his place; so he packed up his few things, and
started very early in the morning, on All-hallows Day, the first of
November. He walked as far as Holloway; and there sat down on a stone,
which to this day is called "Whittington's Stone," and began to think to
himself which road he should take.

While he was thinking what he should do, the Bells of Bow Church, which
at that time were only six, began to ring, and their sound seemed to say
to him:

"Turn again, Whittington, Thrice Lord Mayor of London."

"Lord Mayor of London!" said he to himself. "Why, to be sure, I would
put up with almost anything now, to be Lord Mayor of London, and ride in
a fine coach, when I grow to be a man! Well, I will go back, and think
nothing of the cuffing and scolding of the old cook, if I am to be Lord
Mayor of London at last."

Dick went back, and was lucky enough to get into the house, and set
about his work, before the old cook came downstairs.

We must now follow Miss Puss to the coast of Africa. The ship with the
cat on board, was a long time at sea; and was at last driven by the
winds on a part of the coast of Barbary, where the only people were the
Moors, unknown to the English. The people came in great numbers to see
the sailors, because they were of different colour to themselves, and
treated them civilly; and, when they became better acquainted, were very
eager to buy the fine things that the ship was loaded with.

When the captain saw this, he sent patterns of the best things he had to
the king of the country; who was so much pleased with them, that he
sent for the captain to the palace. Here they were placed, as it is the
custom of the country, on rich carpets flowered with gold and silver.
The king and queen were seated at the upper end of the room; and a
number of dishes were brought in for dinner. They had not sat long, when
a vast number of rats and mice rushed in, and devoured all the meat in
an instant. The captain wondered at this, and asked if these vermin were
not unpleasant.

"Oh yes," said they, "very offensive, and the king would give half his
treasure to be freed of them, for they not only destroy his dinner, as
you see, but they assault him in his chamber, and even in bed, and
so that he is obliged to be watched while he is sleeping, for fear of
them."

The captain jumped for joy; he remembered poor Whittington and his
cat, and told the king he had a creature on board the ship that would
despatch all these vermin immediately. The king jumped so high at the
joy which the news gave him, that his turban dropped off his head.
"Bring this creature to me," says he; "vermin are dreadful in a court,
and if she will perform what you say, I will load your ship with gold
and jewels in exchange for her."

The captain, who knew his business, took this opportunity to set forth
the merits of Miss Puss. He told his majesty; "It is not very convenient
to part with her, as, when she is gone, the rats and mice may destroy
the goods in the ship--but to oblige your majesty, I will fetch her."

"Run, run!" said the queen; "I am impatient to see the dear creature."

Away went the captain to the ship, while another dinner was got ready.
He put Puss under his arm, and arrived at the place just in time to
see the table full of rats. When the cat saw them, she did not wait for
bidding, but jumped out of the captain's arms, and in a few minutes laid
almost all the rats and mice dead at her feet. The rest of them in their
fright scampered away to their holes.

The king was quite charmed to get rid so easily of such plagues, and the
queen desired that the creature who had done them so great a kindness
might be brought to her, that she might look at her. Upon which the
captain called: "Pussy, pussy, pussy!" and she came to him. He then
presented her to the queen, who started back, and was afraid to touch
a creature who had made such a havoc among the rats and mice. However,
when the captain stroked the cat and called: "Pussy, pussy," the queen
also touched her and cried: "Putty, putty," for she had not learned
English. He then put her down on the queen's lap, where she purred and
played with her majesty's hand, and then purred herself to sleep.

The king, having seen the exploits of Mrs. Puss, and being informed that
her kittens would stock the whole country, and keep it free from rats,
bargained with the captain for the whole ship's cargo, and then gave him
ten times as much for the cat as all the rest amounted to.

The captain then took leave of the royal party, and set sail with a fair
wind for England, and after a happy voyage arrived safe in London.

One morning, early, Mr. Fitzwarren had just come to his counting-house
and seated himself at the desk, to count over the cash, and settle the
business for the day, when somebody came tap, tap, at the door. "Who's
there?" said Mr. Fitzwarren. "A friend," answered the other; "I come to
bring you good news of your ship _Unicorn_." The merchant, bustling up
in such a hurry that he forgot his gout, opened the door, and who should
he see waiting but the captain and factor, with a cabinet of jewels, and
a bill of lading; when he looked at this the merchant lifted up his eyes
and thanked Heaven for sending him such a prosperous voyage.

They then told the story of the cat, and showed the rich present
that the king and queen had sent for her to poor Dick. As soon as the
merchant heard this, he called out to his servants:

  "Go send him in, and tell him of his fame;
  Pray call him Mr. Whittington by name."

Mr. Fitzwarren now showed himself to be a good man; for when some of
his servants said so great a treasure was too much for him, he answered:
"God forbid I should deprive him of the value of a single penny, it is
his own, and he shall have it to a farthing." He then sent for Dick,
who at that time was scouring pots for the cook, and was quite dirty. He
would have excused himself from coming into the counting-house, saying,
"The room is swept, and my shoes are dirty and full of hob-nails." But
the merchant ordered him to come in.

Mr. Fitzwarren ordered a chair to be set for him, and so he began to
think they were making game of him, at the same time said to them: "Do
not play tricks with a poor simple boy, but let me go down again, if you
please, to my work."

"Indeed, Mr. Whittington," said the merchant, "we are all quite in
earnest with you, and I most heartily rejoice in the news that these
gentlemen have brought you; for the captain has sold your cat to the
King of Barbary, and brought you in return for her more riches than I
possess in the whole world; and I wish you may long enjoy them!"

Mr. Fitzwarren then told the men to open the great treasure they had
brought with them; and said: "Mr. Whittington has nothing to do but to
put it in some place of safety."

Poor Dick hardly knew how to behave himself for joy. He begged his
master to take what part of it he pleased, since he owed it all to his
kindness. "No, no," answered Mr. Fitzwarren, "this is all your own; and
I have no doubt but you will use it well."

Dick next asked his mistress, and then Miss Alice, to accept a part of
his good fortune; but they would not, and at the same time told him
they felt great joy at his good success. But this poor fellow was too
kind-hearted to keep it all to himself; so he made a present to the
captain, the mate, and the rest of Mr. Fitzwarren's servants; and even
to the ill-natured old cook.

After this Mr. Fitzwarren advised him to send for a proper tailor and
get himself dressed like a gentleman; and told him he was welcome to
live in his house till he could provide himself with a better.

When Whittington's face was washed, his hair curled, his hat cocked, and
he was dressed in a nice suit of clothes he was as handsome and genteel
as any young man who visited at Mr. Fitzwarren's; so that Miss Alice,
who had once been so kind to him, and thought of him with pity, now
looked upon him as fit to be her sweetheart; and the more so, no doubt,
because Whittington was now always thinking what he could do to oblige
her, and making her the prettiest presents that could be.

Mr. Fitzwarren soon saw their love for each other, and proposed to join
them in marriage; and to this they both readily agreed. A day for the
wedding was soon fixed; and they were attended to church by the Lord
Mayor, the court of aldermen, the sheriffs, and a great number of the
richest merchants in London, whom they afterwards treated with a very
rich feast.

History tells us that Mr. Whittington and his lady liven in great
splendour, and were very happy. They had several children. He was
Sheriff of London, thrice Lord Mayor, and received the honour of
knighthood by Henry V.

He entertained this king and his queen at dinner after his conquest of
France so grandly, that the king said "Never had prince such a subject;"
when Sir Richard heard this, he said: "Never had subject such a prince."

The figure of Sir Richard Whittington with his cat in his arms, carved
in stone, was to be seen till the year 1780 over the archway of the old
prison of Newgate, which he built for criminals.




THE STRANGE VISITOR

A woman was sitting at her reel one night; And still she sat, and still
she reeled, and still she wished for company.

In came a pair of broad broad soles, and sat down at the fireside;

And still she sat, and still she reeled, and still she wished for
company.

In came a pair of small small legs, and sat down on the broad broad
soles;

And still she sat, and still she reeled, and still she wished for
company.

In came a pair of thick thick knees, and sat down on the small small
legs;

And still she sat, and still she reeled, and still she wished for
company.

In came a pair of thin thin thighs, and sat down on the thick thick
knees;

And still she sat, and still she reeled, and still she wished for
company.

In came a pair of huge huge hips, and sat down on the thin thin thighs;

And still she sat, and still she reeled, and still she wished for
company.

In came a wee wee waist, and sat down on the huge huge hips;

And still she sat, and still she reeled, and still she wished for
company.

In came a pair of broad broad shoulders, and sat down on the wee wee
waist;

And still she sat, and still she reeled, and still she wished for
company.

In came a pair of small small arms, and sat down on the broad broad
shoulders;

And still she sat, and still she reeled, and still she wished for
company.

In came a pair of huge huge hands, and sat down on the small small arms;

And still she sat, and still she reeled, and still she wished for
company.

In came a small small neck, and sat down on the broad broad shoulders;

And still she sat, and still she reeled, and still she wished for
company.

In came a huge huge head, and sat down on the small small neck.

"How did you get such broad broad feet?" quoth the woman.

"Much tramping, much tramping" (_gruffly_).

"How did you get such small small legs?"

"Aih-h-h!-late--and wee-e-e--moul" (_whiningly_).

"How did you get such thick thick knees?"

"Much praying, much praying" (_piously_).

"How did you get such thin thin thighs?"

"Aih-h-h!--late--and wee-e-e--moul" (_whiningly_).

"How did you get such big big hips?"

"Much sitting, much sitting" (_gruffly_).

"How did you get such a wee wee waist?"

"Aih-h-h!--late--and wee-e-e-moul" (_whiningly_).

"How did you get such broad broad shoulders?"

"With carrying broom, with carrying broom" (_gruffly_).

"How did you get such small small arms?"

"Aih-h-h!--late--and wee-e-e--moul" (_whiningly_.)

"How did you get such huge huge hands?"

"Threshing with an iron flail, threshing with an iron flail"
(_gruffly_).

"How did you get such a small small neck?"

"Aih-h-h!--late--wee-e-e--moul" (_pitifully_).

"How did you get such a huge huge head?"

"Much knowledge, much knowledge" (_keenly_).

"What do you come for?"

"FOR YOU!" (_At the top of the voice, with a wave of the arm and a stamp
of the feet._)




THE LAIDLY WORM OF SPINDLESTON HEUGH

In Bamborough Castle once lived a king who had a fair wife and two
children, a son named Childe Wynd and a daughter named Margaret. Childe
Wynd went forth to seek his fortune, and soon after he had gone the
queen his mother died. The king mourned her long and faithfully, but
one day while he was hunting he came across a lady of great beauty, and
became so much in love with her that he determined to marry her. So
he sent word home that he was going to bring a new queen to Bamborough
Castle.

Princess Margaret was not very glad to hear of her mother's place being
taken, but she did not repine but did her father's bidding. And at the
appointed day came down to the castle gate with the keys all ready to
hand over to her stepmother. Soon the procession drew near, and the new
queen came towards Princess Margaret who bowed low and handed her the
keys of the castle. She stood there with blushing cheeks and eye on
ground, and said: "O welcome, father dear, to your halls and bowers, and
welcome to you my new mother, for all that's here is yours," and again
she offered the keys. One of the king's knights who had escorted the new
queen, cried out in admiration: "Surely this northern Princess is the
loveliest of her kind." At that the new queen flushed up and cried out:
"At least your courtesy might have excepted me," and then she muttered
below her breath: "I'll soon put an end to her beauty."

That same night the queen, who was a noted witch, stole down to a lonely
dungeon wherein she did her magic and with spells three times three, and
with passes nine times nine she cast Princess Margaret under her spell.
And this was her spell:

  I weird ye to be a Laidly Worm,
    And borrowed shall ye never be,
  Until Childe Wynd, the King's own son
    Come to the Heugh and thrice kiss thee;
  Until the world comes to an end,
    Borrowed shall ye never be.

So Lady Margaret went to bed a beauteous maiden, and rose up a Laidly
Worm. And when her maidens came in to dress her in the morning they
found coiled up on the bed a dreadful dragon, which uncoiled itself
and came towards them. But they ran away shrieking, and the Laidly Worm
crawled and crept, and crept and crawled till it reached the Heugh or
rock of the Spindlestone, round which it coiled itself, and lay there
basking with its terrible snout in the air.

Soon the country round about had reason to know of the Laidly Worm of
Spindleston Heugh. For hunger drove the monster out from its cave and it
used to devour everything it could come across. So at last they went to
a mighty warlock and asked him what they should do. Then he consulted
his works and his familiar, and told them: "The Laidly Worm is really
the Princess Margaret and it is hunger that drives her forth to do such
deeds. Put aside for her seven kine, and each day as the sun goes down,
carry every drop of milk they yield to the stone trough at the foot of
the Heugh, and the Laidly Worm will trouble the country no longer. But
if ye would that she be borrowed to her natural shape, and that she who
bespelled her be rightly punished, send over the seas for her brother,
Childe Wynd."

All was done as the warlock advised, the Laidly Worm lived on the milk
of the seven kine, and the country was troubled no longer. But when
Childe Wynd heard the news, he swore a mighty oath to rescue his sister
and revenge her on her cruel stepmother. And three-and-thirty of his men
took the oath with him. Then they set to work and built a long ship, and
its keel they made of the rowan tree. And when all was ready, they out
with their oars and pulled sheer for Bamborough Keep.

But as they got near the keep, the stepmother felt by her magic power
that something was being wrought against her, so she summoned her
familiar imps and said: "Childe Wynd is coming over the seas; he must
never land. Raise storms, or bore the hull, but nohow must he touch
shore." Then the imps went forth to meet Childe Wynd's ship, but when
they got near, they found they had no power over the ship, for its keel
was made of the rowan tree. So back they came to the queen witch, who
knew not what to do. She ordered her men-at-arms to resist Childe Wynd
if he should land near them, and by her spells she caused the Laidly
Worm to wait by the entrance of the harbour.

As the ship came near, the Worm unfolded its coils, and dipping into
the sea, caught hold of the ship of Childe Wynd, and banged it off
the shore. Three times Childe Wynd urged his men on to row bravely and
strong, but each time the Laidly Worm kept it off the shore. Then Childe
Wynd ordered the ship to be put about, and the witch-queen thought he
had given up the attempt. But instead of that, he only rounded the next
point and landed safe and sound in Budle Creek, and then, with sword
drawn and bow bent, rushed up followed by his men, to fight the terrible
Worm that had kept him from landing.

But the moment Childe Wynd had landed, the witch-queen's power over the
Laidly Worm had gone, and she went back to her bower all alone, not an
imp, nor a man-at-arms to help her, for she knew her hour was come. So
when Childe Wynd came rushing up to the Laidly Worm it made no attempt
to stop him or hurt him, but just as he was going to raise his sword to
slay it, the voice of his own sister Margaret came from its jaws saying:

  "O, quit your sword, unbend your bow,
    And give me kisses three;
  For though I am a poisonous worm,
    No harm I'll do to thee."

Childe Wynd stayed his hand, but he did not know what to think if some
witchery were not in it. Then said the Laidly Worm again:

  "O, quit your sword, unbend your bow,
    And give me kisses three,
  If I'm not won ere set of sun,
    Won never shall I be."

Then Childe Wynd went up to the Laidly Worm and kissed it once; but no
change came over it. Then Childe Wynd kissed it once more; but yet no
change came over it. For a third time he kissed the loathsome thing,
and with a hiss and a roar the Laidly Worm reared back and before Childe
Wynd stood his sister Margaret. He wrapped his cloak about her, and then
went up to the castle with her. When he reached the keep, he went off to
the witch queen's bower, and when he saw her, he touched her with a twig
of a rowan tree. No sooner had he touched her than she shrivelled up and
shrivelled up, till she became a huge ugly toad, with bold staring eyes
and a horrible hiss. She croaked and she hissed, and then hopped away
down the castle steps, and Childe Wynd took his father's place as king,
and they all lived happy afterwards.

But to this day, the loathsome toad is seen at times, haunting the
neighbourhood of Bamborough Keep, and the wicked witch-queen is a Laidly
Toad.




THE CAT AND THE MOUSE

    The cat and the mouse
    Play'd in the malt-house:

The cat bit the mouse's tail off. "Pray, puss, give me my tail." "No,"
says the cat, "I'll not give you your tail, till you go to the cow, and
fetch me some milk."

    First she leapt and then she ran,
    Till she came to the cow, and thus began:

"Pray, Cow, give me milk, that I may give cat milk, that cat may give me
my own tail again." "No," said the cow, "I will give you no milk, till
you go to the farmer, and get me some hay."

    First she leapt, and then she ran,
    Till she came to the farmer and thus began:

"Pray, Farmer, give me hay, that I may give cow hay, that cow may give
me milk, that I may give cat milk, that cat may give me my own tail
again." "No," says the farmer, "I'll give you no hay, till you go to the
butcher and fetch me some meat."

    First she leapt, and then she ran,
    Till she came to the butcher, and thus began:

"Pray, Butcher, give me meat, that I may give farmer meat, that farmer
may give me hay, that I may give cow hay, that cow may give me milk,
that I may give cat milk, that cat may give me my own tail again." "No,"
says the butcher, "I'll give you no meat, till you go to the baker and
fetch me some bread."

    First she leapt and then she ran,
    Till she came to the baker, and thus began:

"Pray, Baker, give me bread, that I may give butcher bread, that butcher
may give me meat, that I may give farmer meat, that farmer may give me
hay, that I may give cow hay, that cow may give me milk, that I may give
cat milk, that cat may give me my own tail again."

    "Yes," says the baker, "I'll give you some bread,
    But if you eat my meal, I'll cut off your head."

Then the baker gave mouse bread, and mouse gave butcher bread, and
butcher gave mouse meat, and mouse gave farmer meat, and farmer gave
mouse hay, and mouse gave cow hay, and cow gave mouse milk, and mouse
gave cat milk, and cat gave mouse her own tail again!




THE FISH AND THE RING

Once upon a time, there was a mighty baron in the North Countrie who was
a great magician that knew everything that would come to pass. So one
day, when his little boy was four years old, he looked into the Book of
Fate to see what would happen to him. And to his dismay, he found that
his son would wed a lowly maid that had just been born in a house under
the shadow of York Minster. Now the Baron knew the father of the little
girl was very, very poor, and he had five children already. So he called
for his horse, and rode into York; and passed by the father's house, and
saw him sitting by the door, sad and doleful. So he dismounted and went
up to him and said: "What is the matter, my good man?" And the man said:
"Well, your honour, the fact is, I've five children already, and now
a sixth's come, a little lass, and where to get the bread from to fill
their mouths, that's more than I can say."

"Don't be downhearted, my man," said the Baron. "If that's your trouble,
I can help you. I'll take away the last little one, and you wont have to
bother about her."

"Thank you kindly, sir," said the man; and he went in and brought out
the lass and gave her to the Baron, who mounted his horse and rode away
with her. And when he got by the bank of the river Ouse, he threw the
little, thing into the river, and rode off to his castle.

But the little lass didn't sink; her clothes kept her up for a time, and
she floated, and she floated, till she was cast ashore just in front of
a fisherman's hut. There the fisherman found her, and took pity on the
poor little thing and took her into his house, and she lived there till
she was fifteen years old, and a fine handsome girl.

One day it happened that the Baron went out hunting with some companions
along the banks of the River Ouse, and stopped at the fisherman's hut to
get a drink, and the girl came out to give it to them. They all noticed
her beauty, and one of them said to the Baron: "You can read fates,
Baron, whom will she marry, d'ye think?"

"Oh! that's easy to guess," said the Baron; "some yokel or other. But
I'll cast her horoscope. Come here girl, and tell me on what day you
were born?"

"I don't know, sir," said the girl, "I was picked up just here after
having been brought down by the river about fifteen years ago."

Then the Baron knew who she was, and when they went away, he rode back
and said to the girl: "Hark ye, girl, I will make your fortune. Take
this letter to my brother in Scarborough, and you will be settled for
life." And the girl took the letter and said she would go. Now this was
what he had written in the letter:

"Dear Brother,--Take the bearer and put her to death immediately.

"Yours affectionately,

"Albert."

So soon after the girl set out for Scarborough, and slept for the night
at a little inn. Now that very night a band of robbers broke into the
inn, and searched the girl, who had no money, and only the letter. So
they opened this and read it, and thought it a shame. The captain of the
robbers took a pen and paper and wrote this letter:

"Dear Brother,--Take the bearer and marry her to my son immediately.

"Yours affectionately,

"Albert."

And then he gave it to the girl, bidding her begone. So she went on
to the Baron's brother at Scarborough, a noble knight, with whom the
Baron's son was staying. When she gave the letter to his brother,
he gave orders for the wedding to be prepared at once, and they were
married that very day.

Soon after, the Baron himself came to his brother's castle, and what was
his surprise to find that the very thing he had plotted against had come
to pass. But he was not to be put off that way; and he took out the girl
for a walk, as he said, along the cliffs. And when he got her all alone,
he took her by the arms, and was going to throw her over. But she begged
hard for her life. "I have not done anything," she said: "if you will
only spare me, I will do whatever you wish. I will never see you or your
son again till you desire it." Then the Baron took off his gold ring and
threw it into the sea, saying: "Never let me see your face till you can
show me that ring;" and he let her go.

The poor girl wandered on and on, till at last she came to a great
noble's castle, and she asked to have some work given to her; and they
made her the scullion girl of the castle, for she had been used to such
work in the fisherman's hut.

Now one day, who should she see coming up to the noble's house but the
Baron and his brother and his son, her husband. She didn't know what
to do; but thought they would not see her in the castle kitchen. So she
went back to her work with a sigh, and set to cleaning a huge big fish
that was to be boiled for their dinner. And, as she was cleaning it,
she saw something shine inside it, and what do you think she found? Why,
there was the Baron's ring, the very one he had thrown over the cliff
at Scarborough. She was right glad to see it, you may be sure. Then she
cooked the fish as nicely as she could, and served it up.

Well, when the fish came on the table, the guests liked it so well that
they asked the noble who cooked it. He said he didn't know, but called
to his servants: "Ho, there, send up the cook that cooked that fine
fish." So they went down to the kitchen and told the girl she was wanted
in the hall. Then she washed and tidied herself and put the Baron's gold
ring on her thumb and went up into the hall.

When the banqueters saw such a young and beautiful cook they were
surprised. But the Baron was in a tower of a temper, and started up as
if he would do her some violence. So the girl went up to him with her
hand before her with the ring on it; and she put it down before him on
the table. Then at last the Baron saw that no one could fight against
Fate, and he handed her to a seat and announced to all the company that
this was his son's true wife; and he took her and his son home to his
castle; and they all lived as happy as could be ever afterwards.




THE MAGPIE'S NEST

  Once upon a time when pigs spoke rhyme
  And monkeys chewed tobacco,
  And hens took snuff to make them tough,
  And ducks went quack, quack, quack, O!

All the birds of the air came to the magpie and asked her to teach
them how to build nests. For the magpie is the cleverest bird of all
at building nests. So she put all the birds round her and began to show
them how to do it. First of all she took some mud and made a sort of
round cake with it.

"Oh, that's how it's done," said the thrush; and away it flew, and so
that's how thrushes build their nests.

Then the magpie took some twigs and arranged them round in the mud.

"Now I know all about it," says the blackbird, and off he flew; and
that's how the blackbirds make their nests to this very day.

Then the magpie put another layer of mud over the twigs.

"Oh that's quite obvious," said the wise owl, and away it flew; and owls
have never made better nests since.

After this the magpie took some twigs and twined them round the outside.

"The very thing!" said the sparrow, and off he went; so sparrows make
rather slovenly nests to this day.

Well, then Madge Magpie took some feathers and stuff and lined the nest
very comfortably with it.

"That suits me," cried the starling, and off it flew; and very
comfortable nests have starlings.

So it went on, every bird taking away some knowledge of how to build
nests, but, none of them waiting to the end. Meanwhile Madge Magpie
went on working and working without, looking up till the only bird that
remained was the turtle-dove, and that hadn't paid any attention all
along, but only kept on saying its silly cry "Take two, Taffy, take
two-o-o-o."

At last the magpie heard this just as she was putting a twig across. So
she said: "One's enough."

But the turtle-dove kept on saying: "Take two, Taffy, take two-o-o-o."

Then the magpie got angry and said: "One's enough I tell you."

Still the turtle-dove cried: "Take two, Taffy, take two-o-o-o."

At last, and at last, the magpie looked up and saw nobody near her but
the silly turtle-dove, and then she got rare angry and flew away and
refused to tell the birds how to build nests again. And that is why
different birds build their nests differently.




KATE CRACKERNUTS

Once upon a time there was a king and a queen, as in many lands have
been. The king had a daughter, Anne, and the queen had one named Kate,
but Anne was far bonnier than the queen's daughter, though they loved
one another like real sisters. The queen was jealous of the king's
daughter being bonnier than her own, and cast about to spoil her beauty.
So she took counsel of the henwife, who told her to send the lassie to
her next morning fasting.

So next morning early, the queen said to Anne, "Go, my dear, to the
henwife in the glen, and ask her for some eggs." So Anne set out, but as
she passed through the kitchen she saw a crust, and she took and munched
it as she went along.

When she came to the henwife's she asked for eggs, as she had been told
to do; the henwife said to her, "Lift the lid off that pot there and
see." The lassie did so, but nothing happened. "Go home to your minnie
and tell her to keep her larder door better locked," said the henwife.
So she went home to the queen and told her what the henwife had said.
The queen knew from this that the lassie had had something to eat, so
watched the next morning and sent her away fasting; but the princess saw
some country-folk picking peas by the roadside, and being very kind she
spoke to them and took a handful of the peas, which she ate by the way.

When she came to the henwife's, she said, "Lift the lid off the pot
and you'll see." So Anne lifted the lid but nothing happened. Then the
henwife was rare angry and said to Anne, "Tell your minnie the pot won't
boil if the fire's away." So Anne went home and told the queen.

The third day the queen goes along with the girl herself to the henwife.
Now, this time, when Anne lifted the lid off the pot, off falls her own
pretty head, and on jumps a sheep's head.

So the queen was now quite satisfied, and went back home.

Her own daughter, Kate, however, took a fine linen cloth and wrapped it
round her sister's head and took her by the hand and they both went out
to seek their fortune. They went on, and they went on, and they went
on, till they came to a castle. Kate knocked at the door and asked for a
night's lodging for herself and a sick sister. They went in and found
it was a king's castle, who had two sons, and one of them was sickening
away to death and no one could find out what ailed him. And the curious
thing was that whoever watched him at night was never seen any more. So
the king had offered a peck of silver to anyone who would stop up with
him. Now Katie was a very brave girl, so she offered to sit up with him.

Till midnight all goes well. As twelve o clock rings, however, the sick
prince rises, dresses himself, and slips downstairs. Kate followed, but
he didn't seem to notice her. The prince went to the stable, saddled his
horse, called his hound, jumped into the saddle, and Kate leapt lightly
up behind him. Away rode the prince and Kate through the greenwood,
Kate, as they pass, plucking nuts from the trees and filling her apron
with them. They rode on and on till they came to a green hill. The
prince here drew bridle and spoke, "Open, open, green hill, and let the
young prince in with his horse and his hound," and Kate added, "and his
lady him behind."

Immediately the green hill opened and they passed in. The prince entered
a magnificent hall, brightly lighted up, and many beautiful fairies
surrounded the prince and led him off to the dance. Meanwhile, Kate,
without being noticed, hid herself behind the door. There she sees the
prince dancing, and dancing, and dancing, till he could dance no longer
and fell upon a couch. Then the fairies would fan him till he could rise
again and go on dancing.

At last the cock crew, and the prince made all haste to get on
horseback; Kate jumped up behind, and home they rode. When the morning
sun rose they came in and found Kate sitting down by the fire and
cracking her nuts. Kate said the prince had a good night; but she would
not sit up another night unless she was to get a peck of gold. The
second night passed as the first had done. The prince got up at midnight
and rode away to the green hill and the fairy ball, and Kate went with
him, gathering nuts as they rode through the forest. This time she did
not watch the prince, for she knew he would dance and dance, and dance.
But she sees a fairy baby playing with a wand, and overhears one of the
fairies say: "Three strokes of that wand would make Kate's sick sister
as bonnie as ever she was." So Kate rolled nuts to the fairy baby, and
rolled nuts till the baby toddled after the nuts and let fall the wand,
and Kate took it up and put it in her apron. And at cockcrow they rode
home as before, and the moment Kate got home to her room she rushed and
touched Anne three times with the wand, and the nasty sheep's head
fell off and she was her own pretty self again. The third night Kate
consented to watch, only if she should marry the sick prince. All went
on as on the first two nights. This time the fairy baby was playing with
a birdie; Kate heard one of the fairies say: "Three bites of that birdie
would make the sick prince as well as ever he was." Kate rolled all the
nuts she had to the fairy baby till the birdie was dropped, and Kate put
it in her apron.

At cockcrow they set off again, but instead of cracking her nuts as
she used to do, this time Kate plucked the feathers off and cooked
the birdie. Soon there arose a very savoury smell. "Oh!" said the sick
prince, "I wish I had a bite of that birdie," so Kate gave him a bite of
the birdie, and he rose up on his elbow. By-and-by he cried out again:
"Oh, if I had another bite of that birdie!" so Kate gave him another
bite, and he sat up on his bed. Then he said again: "Oh! if I only had
a third bite of that birdie!" So Kate gave him a third bite, and he rose
quite well, dressed himself, and sat down by the fire, and when the folk
came in next morning they found Kate and the young prince cracking nuts
together. Meanwhile his brother had seen Annie and had fallen in love
with her, as everybody did who saw her sweet pretty face. So the sick
son married the well sister, and the well son married the sick sister,
and they all lived happy and died happy, and never drank out of a dry
cappy.




THE CAULD LAD OF HILTON

At Hilton Hall, long years ago, there lived a Brownie that was the
contrariest Brownie you ever knew. At night, after the servants had
gone to bed, it would turn everything topsy-turvy, put sugar in the
salt-cellars, pepper into the beer, and was up to all kinds of pranks.
It would throw the chairs down, put tables on their backs, rake out
fires, and do as much mischief as could be. But sometimes it would be in
a good temper, and then!--"What's a Brownie?" you say. Oh, it's a kind
of a sort of a Bogle, but it isn't so cruel as a Redcap! What! you don't
know what's a Bogle or a Redcap! Ah, me! what's the world a-coming to?
Of course a Brownie is a funny little thing, half man, half goblin, with
pointed ears and hairy hide. When you bury a treasure, you scatter over
it blood drops of a newly slain kid or lamb, or, better still, bury the
animal with the treasure, and a Brownie will watch over it for you, and
frighten everybody else away.

Where was I? Well, as I was a-saying, the Brownie at Hilton Hall would
play at mischief, but if the servants laid out for it a bowl of cream,
or a knuckle cake spread with honey, it would clear away things for
them, and make everything tidy in the kitchen. One night, however, when
the servants had stopped up late, they heard a noise in the kitchen,
and, peeping in, saw the Brownie swinging to and fro on the Jack chain,
and saying:

  "Woe's me! woe's me!
  The acorn's not yet
  Fallen from the tree,
  That's to grow the wood,
  That's to make the cradle,
  That's to rock the bairn,
  That's to grow to the man,
  That's to lay me.
  Woe's me! woe's me!"

So they took pity on the poor Brownie, and asked the nearest henwife
what they should do to send it away. "That's easy enough," said the
henwife, and told them that a Brownie that's paid for its service, in
aught that's not perishable, goes away at once. So they made a cloak of
Lincoln green, with a hood to it, and put it by the hearth and watched.
They saw the Brownie come up, and seeing the hood and cloak, put them
on, and frisk about, dancing on one leg and saying:

  "I've taken your cloak, I've taken your hood;
  The Cauld Lad of Hilton will do no more good."

And with that it vanished, and was never seen or heard of afterwards.




THE ASS, THE TABLE, AND THE STICK

A lad named Jack was once so unhappy at home through his father's
ill-treatment, that he made up his mind to run away and seek his fortune
in the wide world.

He ran, and he ran, till he could run no longer, and then he ran right
up against a little old woman who was gathering sticks. He was too much
out of breath to beg pardon, but the woman was good-natured, and she
said he seemed to be a likely lad, so she would take him to be her
servant, and would pay him well. He agreed, for he was very hungry,
and she brought him to her house in the wood, where he served her for a
twelvemonths and a day.

When the year had passed, she called him to her, and said she had good
wages for him. So she presented him with an ass out of the stable, and
he had but to pull Neddy's ears to make him begin at once to ee--aw! And
when he brayed there dropped from his mouth silver sixpences, and half
crowns, and golden guineas.

The lad was well pleased with the wage he had received, and away he rode
till he reached an inn. There he ordered the best of everything, and
when the innkeeper refused to serve him without being paid beforehand,
the boy went off to the stable, pulled the ass's ears and obtained his
pocket full of money. The host had watched all this through a crack
in the door, and when night came on he put an ass of his own for the
precious Neddy of the poor youth. So Jack without knowing that any
change had been made, rode away next morning to his father's house.

Now, I must tell you that near his home dwelt a poor widow with an only
daughter. The lad and the maiden were fast friends and true loves; but
when Jack asked his father's leave to marry the girl, "Never till you
have the money to keep her," was the reply. "I have that, father," said
the lad, and going to the ass he pulled its long ears; well, he pulled,
and he pulled, till one of them came off in his hands; but Neddy, though
he hee-hawed and he hee-hawed let fall no half crowns or guineas. The
father picked up a hay-fork and beat his son out of the house. I promise
you he ran. Ah! he ran and ran till he came bang against the door, and
burst it open, and there he was in a joiner's shop. "You're a likely
lad," said the joiner; "serve me for a twelvemonths and a day and I will
pay you well.'" So he agreed, and served the carpenter for a year and
a day. "Now," said the master, "I will give you your wage;" and he
presented him with a table, telling him he had but to say, "Table, be
covered," and at once it would be spread with lots to eat and drink.

Jack hitched the table on his back, and away he went with it till he
came to the inn. "Well, host," shouted he, "my dinner to-day, and that
of the best."

"Very sorry, but there is nothing in the house but ham and eggs."

"Ham and eggs for me!" exclaimed Jack. "I can do better than
that.--Come, my table, be covered!"

At once the table was spread with turkey and sausages, roast mutton,
potatoes, and greens. The publican opened his eyes, but he said nothing,
not he.

That night he fetched down from his attic a table very like that of
Jack, and exchanged the two. Jack, none the wiser, next morning hitched
the worthless table on to his back and carried it home. "Now, father,
may I marry my lass?" he asked.

"Not unless you can keep her," replied the father. "Look here!"
exclaimed Jack. "Father, I have a table which does all my bidding."

"Let me see it," said the old man.

The lad set it in the middle of the room, and bade it be covered; but
all in vain, the table remained bare. In a rage, the father caught the
warming-pan down from the wall and warmed his son's back with it so that
the boy fled howling from the house, and ran and ran till he came to a
river and tumbled in. A man picked him out and bade him assist him in
making a bridge over the river; and how do you think he was doing it?
Why, by casting a tree across; so Jack climbed up to the top of the tree
and threw his weight on it, so that when the man had rooted the tree up,
Jack and the tree-head dropped on the farther bank.

"Thank you," said the man; "and now for what you have done I will pay
you;" so saying, he tore a branch from the tree, and fettled it up into
a club with his knife. "There," exclaimed he; "take this stick, and when
you say to it, 'Up stick and bang him,' it will knock any one down who
angers you."

The lad was overjoyed to get this stick--so away he went with it to the
inn, and as soon as the publican, appeared, "Up stick and bang him!" was
his cry. At the word the cudgel flew from his hand and battered the
old publican on the back, rapped his head, bruised his arms tickled his
ribs, till he fell groaning on the floor; still the stick belaboured
the prostrate man, nor would Jack call it off till he had got back the
stolen ass and table. Then he galloped home on the ass, with the table
on his shoulders, and the stick in his hand. When he arrived there he
found his father was dead, so he brought his ass into the stable, and
pulled its ears till he had filled the manger with money.

It was soon known through the town that Jack had returned rolling in
wealth, and accordingly all the girls in the place set their caps at
him. "Now," said Jack, "I shall marry the richest lass in the place; so
tomorrow do you all come in front of my house with your money in your
aprons."

Next morning the street was full of girls with aprons held out, and gold
and silver in them; but Jack's own sweetheart was among them, and she
had neither gold nor silver, nought but two copper pennies, that was all
she had.

"Stand aside, lass;" said Jack to her, speaking roughly. "Thou hast no
silver nor gold--stand off from the rest." She obeyed, and the tears ran
down her cheeks, and filled her apron with diamonds.

"Up stick and bang them!" exclaimed Jack; whereupon the cudgel leaped
up, and running along the line of girls, knocked them all on the heads
and left them senseless on the pavement. Jack took all their money and
poured it into his truelove's lap. "Now, lass," he exclaimed, "thou art
the richest, and I shall marry thee."




FAIRY OINTMENT

Dame Goody was a nurse that looked after sick people, and minded babies.
One night she was woke up at midnight, and when she went downstairs,
she saw a strange squinny-eyed, little ugly old fellow, who asked her
to come to his wife who was too ill to mind her baby. Dame Goody didn't
like the look of the old fellow, but business is business; so she popped
on her things, and went down to him. And when she got down to him, he
whisked her up on to a large coal-black horse with fiery eyes, that
stood at the door; and soon they were going at a rare pace, Dame Goody
holding on to the old fellow like grim death.

They rode, and they rode, till at last they stopped before a cottage
door. So they got down and went in and found the good woman abed with
the children playing about; and the babe, a fine bouncing boy, beside
her.

Dame Goody took the babe, which was as fine a baby boy as you'd wish to
see. The mother, when she handed the baby to Dame Goody to mind, gave
her a box of ointment, and told her to stroke the baby's eyes with it
as soon as it opened them. After a while it began to open its eyes. Dame
Goody saw that it had squinny eyes just like its father. So she took the
box of ointment and stroked its two eyelids with it. But she couldn't
help wondering what it was for, as she had never seen such a thing done
before. So she looked to see if the others were looking, and, when they
were not noticing she stroked her own right eyelid with the ointment.

No sooner had she done so, than everything seemed changed about her.
The cottage became elegantly furnished. The mother in the bed was a
beautiful lady, dressed up in white silk. The little baby was still more
beautiful than before, and its clothes were made of a sort of silvery
gauze. Its little brothers and sisters around the bed were flat-nosed
imps with pointed ears, who made faces at one another, and scratched
their polls. Sometimes they would pull the sick lady's ears with their
long and hairy paws. In fact, they were up to all kinds of mischief; and
Dame Goody knew that she had got into a house of pixies. But she said
nothing to nobody, and as soon as the lady was well enough to mind the
baby, she asked the old fellow to take her back home. So he came round
to the door with the coal-black horse with eyes of fire, and off they
went as fast as before, or perhaps a little faster, till they came to
Dame Goody's cottage, where the squinny-eyed old fellow lifted her down
and left her, thanking her civilly enough, and paying her more than she
had ever been paid before for such service.

Now next day happened to be market-day, and as Dame Goody had been away
from home, she wanted many things in the house, and trudged off to get
them at the market. As she was buying the things she wanted, who
should she see but the squinny-eyed old fellow who had taken her on the
coal-black horse. And what do you think he was doing? Why he went about
from stall to stall taking up things from each, here some fruit, and
there some eggs, and so on; and no one seemed to take any notice.

Now Dame Goody did not think it her business to interfere, but she
thought she ought not to let so good a customer pass without speaking.
So she ups to him and bobs a curtsey and said: "Gooden, sir, I hopes as
how your good lady and the little one are as well as----"

But she couldn't finish what she was a-saying, for the funny old fellow
started back in surprise, and he says to her, says he: "What! do you see
me today?"

"See you," says she, "why, of course I do, as plain as the sun in the
skies, and what's more," says she, "I see you are busy too, into the
bargain."

"Ah, you see too much," said he; "now, pray, with which eye do you see
all this?"

"With the right eye to be sure," said she, as proud as can be to find
him out.

"The ointment! The ointment!" cried the old pixy thief. "Take that for
meddling with what don't concern you: you shall see me no more." And
with that he struck her on her right eye, and she couldn't see him any
more; and, what was worse, she was blind on the right side from that
hour till the day of her death.




THE WELL OF THE WORLD'S END

Once upon a time, and a very good time it was, though it wasn't in my
time, nor in your time, nor any one else's time, there was a girl whose
mother had died, and her father had married again. And her stepmother
hated her because she was more beautiful than herself, and she was very
cruel to her. She used to make her do all the servant's work, and never
let her have any peace. At last, one day, the stepmother thought to get
rid of her altogether; so she handed her a sieve and said to her: "Go,
fill it at the Well of the World's End and bring it home to me full,
or woe betide you." For she thought she would never be able to find the
Well of the World's End, and, if she did, how could she bring home a
sieve full of water?

Well, the girl started off, and asked every one she met to tell her
where was the Well of the World's End. But nobody knew, and she didn't
know what to do, when a queer little old woman, all bent double, told
her where it was, and how she could get to it. So she did what the old
woman told her, and at last arrived at the Well of the World's End. But
when she dipped the sieve in the cold, cold water, it all ran out again.
She tried and she tried again, but every time it was the same; and at
last she sate down and cried as if her heart would break.

Suddenly she heard a croaking voice, and she looked up and saw a great
frog with goggle eyes looking at her and speaking to her.

"What's the matter, dearie?" it said.

"Oh, dear, oh dear," she said, "my stepmother has sent me all this long
way to fill this sieve with water from the Well of the World's End, and
I can't fill it no how at all."

"Well," said the frog, "if you promise me to do whatever I bid you for a
whole night long, I'll tell you how to fill it."

So the girl agreed, and then the frog said:

  "Stop it with moss and daub it with clay,
  And then it will carry the water away;"

and then it gave a hop, skip and jump, and went flop into the Well of
the World's End.

So the girl looked about for some moss, and lined the bottom of the
sieve with it, and over that she put some clay, and then she dipped it
once again into the Well of the World's End; and this time, the water
didn't run out, and she turned to go away.

Just then the frog popped up its head out of the Well of the World's
End, and said: "Remember your promise."

"All right," said the girl; for thought she, "what harm can a frog do
me?"

So she went back to her stepmother, and brought the sieve full of water
from the Well of the World's End. The stepmother was fine and angry, but
she said nothing at all.

That very evening they heard something tap tapping at the door low down,
and a voice cried out:

  "Open the door, my hinny, my heart,
  Open the door, my own darling;
  Mind you the words that you and I spoke,
  Down in the meadow, at the World's End Well."

"Whatever can that be?" cried out the stepmother, and the girl had to
tell her all about it, and what she had promised the frog.

"Girls must keep their promises," said the stepmother. "Go and open the
door this instant." For she was glad the girl would have to obey a nasty
frog.

So the girl went and opened the door, and there was the frog from the
Well of the World's End. And it hopped, and it skipped, and it jumped,
till it reached the girl, and then it said:

  "Lift me to your knee, my hinny, my heart;
  Lift me to your knee, my own darling;
  Remember the words you and I spoke,
  Down in the meadow by the World's End Well."

But the girl didn't like to, till her stepmother said "Lift it up this
instant, you hussy! Girls must keep their promises!"

So at last she lifted the frog up on to her lap, and it lay there for a
time, till at last it said:

  "Give me some supper, my hinny, my heart,
  Give me some supper, my darling;
  Remember the words you and I spake,
  In the meadow, by the Well of the World's End."

Well, she didn't mind doing that, so she got it a bowl of milk and
bread, and fed it well. And when the frog, had finished, it said:

  "Go with me to bed, my hinny, my heart,
  Go with me to bed, my own darling;
  Mind you the words you spake to me,
  Down by the cold well, so weary."

But that the girl wouldn't do, till her stepmother said: "Do what you
promised, girl; girls must keep their promises. Do what you're bid, or
out you go, you and your froggie."

So the girl took the frog with her to bed, and kept it as far away from
her as she could. Well, just as the day was beginning to break what
should the frog say but:

  "Chop off my head, my hinny, my heart,
  Chop off my head, my own darling;
  Remember the promise you made to me,
  Down by the cold well so weary."

At first the girl wouldn't, for she thought of what the frog had done
for her at the Well of the World's End. But when the frog said the words
over again, she went and took an axe and chopped off its head, and lo!
and behold, there stood before her a handsome young prince, who told her
that he had been enchanted by a wicked magician, and he could never be
unspelled till some girl would do his bidding for a whole night, and
chop off his head at the end of it.

The stepmother was that surprised when she found the young prince
instead of the nasty frog, and she wasn't best pleased, you may be sure,
when the prince told her that he was going to marry her stepdaughter
because she had unspelled him. So they were married and went away to
live in the castle of the king, his father, and all the stepmother had
to console her was, that it was all through her that her stepdaughter
was married to a prince.




MASTER OF ALL MASTERS

A girl once went to the fair to hire herself for servant. At last a
funny-looking old gentleman engaged her, and took her home to his house.
When she got there, he told her that he had something to teach her, for
that in his house he had his own names for things.

He said to her: "What will you call me?"

"Master or mister, or whatever you please sir," says she.

He said: "You must call me 'master of all masters.' And what would you
call this?" pointing to his bed.

"Bed or couch, or whatever you please, sir."

"No, that's my 'barnacle.' And what do you call these?" said he pointing
to his pantaloons.

"Breeches or trousers, or whatever you please, sir."

"You must call them 'squibs and crackers.' And what would you call her?"
pointing to the cat.

"Cat or kit, or whatever you please, sir."

"You must call her 'white-faced simminy.' And this now," showing the
fire, "what would you call this?"

"Fire or flame, or whatever you please, sir."

"You must call it 'hot cockalorum,' and what this?" he went on, pointing
to the water.

"Water or wet, or whatever you please, sir."

"No, 'pondalorum' is its name. And what do you call all this?" asked he,
as he pointed to the house.

"House or cottage, or whatever you please, sir."

"You must call it 'high topper mountain.'"

That very night the servant woke her master up in a fright and said:
"Master of all masters, get out of your barnacle and put on your squibs
and crackers. For white-faced simminy has got a spark of hot cockalorum
on its tail, and unless you get some pondalorum high topper mountain
will be all on hot cockalorum." .... That's all.




THE THREE HEADS OF THE WELL

Long before Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table, there reigned in
the eastern part of England a king who kept his Court at Colchester. In
the midst of all his glory, his queen died, leaving behind her an only
daughter, about fifteen years of age, who for her beauty and kindness
was the wonder of all that knew her. But the king hearing of a lady who
had likewise an only daughter, had a mind to marry her for the sake of
her riches, though she was old, ugly, hook-nosed, and hump-backed. Her
daughter was a yellow dowdy, full of envy and ill-nature; and, in short,
was much of the same mould as her mother. But in a few weeks the king,
attended by the nobility and gentry, brought his deformed bride to the
palace, where the marriage rites were performed. They had not been long
in the Court before they set the king against his own beautiful daughter
by false reports. The young princess having lost her father's love, grew
weary of the Court, and one day, meeting with her father in the garden,
she begged him, with tears in her eyes, to let her go and seek her
fortune; to which the king consented, and ordered her mother-in-law to
give her what she pleased. She went to the queen, who gave her a canvas
bag of brown bread and hard cheese, with a bottle of beer; though this
was but a pitiful dowry for a king's daughter. She took it, with
thanks, and proceeded on her journey, passing through groves, woods,
and valleys, till at length she saw an old man sitting on a stone at the
mouth of a cave, who said: "Good morrow, fair maiden, whither away so
fast?"

"Aged father," says she, "I am going to seek my fortune."

"What have you got in your bag and bottle?"

"In my bag I have got bread and cheese, and in my bottle good small
beer. Would you like to have some?"

"Yes," said he, "with all my heart."

With that the lady pulled out her provisions, and bade him eat and
welcome. He did so, and gave her many thanks, and said: "There is a
thick thorny hedge before you, which you cannot get through, but take
this wand in your hand, strike it three times, and say, 'Pray, hedge,
let me come through,' and it will open immediately; then, a little
further, you will find a well; sit down on the brink of it, and there
will come up three golden heads, which will speak; and whatever they
require, that do." Promising she would, she took her leave of him.
Coming to the hedge and using the old man's wand, it divided, and let
her through; then, coming to the well, she had no sooner sat down than a
golden head came up singing:

  "Wash me, and comb me,
  And lay me down softly.
  And lay me on a bank to dry,
  That I may look pretty,
  When somebody passes by."

"Yes," said she, and taking it in her lap combed it with a silver comb,
and then placed it upon a primrose bank. Then up came a second and a
third head, saying the same as the former. So she did the same for them,
and then, pulling out her provisions, sat down to eat her dinner.

Then said the heads one to another: "What shall we weird for this damsel
who has used us so kindly?"

The first said: "I weird her to be so beautiful that she shall charm the
most powerful prince in the world."

The second said: "I weird her such a sweet voice as shall far exceed the
nightingale."

The third said: "My gift shall be none of the least, as she is a king's
daughter, I'll weird her so fortunate that she shall become queen to the
greatest prince that reigns."

She then let them down into the well again, and so went on her journey.
She had not travelled long before she saw a king hunting in the park
with his nobles. She would have avoided him, but the king, having caught
a sight of her, approached, and what with her beauty and sweet voice,
fell desperately in love with her, and soon induced her to marry him.

This king finding that she was the King of Colchester's daughter,
ordered some chariots to be got ready, that he might pay the king, his
father-in-law, a visit. The chariot in which the king and queen rode
was adorned with rich gems of gold. The king, her father, was at first
astonished that his daughter had been so fortunate, till the young
king let him know of all that had happened. Great was the joy at
Court amongst all, with the exception of the queen and her club-footed
daughter, who were ready to burst with envy. The rejoicings, with
feasting and dancing, continued many days. Then at length they returned
home with the dowry her father gave her.

The hump-backed princess, perceiving that her sister had been so lucky
in seeking her fortune, wanted to do the same; so she told her mother,
and all preparations were made, and she was furnished with rich dresses,
and with sugar, almonds, and sweetmeats, in great quantities, and a
large bottle of Malaga sack. With these she went the same road as
her sister; and coming near the cave, the old man said: "Young woman,
whither so fast?"

"What's that to you?" said she.

"Then," said he, "what have you in your bag and bottle?"

She answered: "Good things, which you shall not be troubled with."

"Won't you give me some?" said he.

"No, not a bit, nor a drop, unless it would choke you."

The old man frowned, saying: "Evil fortune attend ye!"

Going on, she came to the hedge, through which she espied a gap, and
thought to pass through it; but the hedge closed, and the, thorns
ran into her flesh, so that it was with great difficulty that she
got through. Being now all over blood, she searched for water to wash
herself, and, looking round, she saw the well. She sat down on the brink
of it, and one of the heads came up, saying: "Wash me, comb me, and lay
me down softly," as before, but she banged it with her bottle, saying,
"Take that for your washing." So the second and third heads came up,
and met with no better treatment than the first. Whereupon the heads
consulted among themselves what evils to plague her with for such usage.

The first said: "Let her be struck with leprosy in her face."

The second: "Let her voice be as harsh as a corn-crake's."

The third said: "Let her have for husband but a poor country cobbler."

Well, she goes on till she came to a town, and it being market-day, the
people looked at her, and, seeing such a mangy face, and hearing such
a squeaky voice, all fled but a poor country cobbler. Now he not long
before had mended the shoes of an old hermit, who, having no money
gave him a box of ointment for the cure of the leprosy, and a bottle of
spirits for a harsh voice. So the cobbler having a mind to do an act of
charity, was induced to go up to her and ask her who she was.

"I am," said she, "the King of Colchester's daughter-in-law."

"Well," said the cobbler, "if I restore you to your natural complexion,
and make a sound cure both in face and voice, will you in reward take me
for a husband?"

"Yes, friend," replied she, "with all my heart!"

With this the cobbler applied the remedies, and they made her well in
a few weeks; after which they were married, and so set forward for the
Court at Colchester. When the queen found that her daughter had married
nothing but a poor cobbler, she hanged herself in wrath. The death of
the queen so pleased the king, who was glad to get rid of her so soon,
that he gave the cobbler a hundred pounds to quit the Court with his
lady, and take to a remote part of the kingdom, where he lived many
years mending shoes, his wife spinning the thread for him.


Of this race there is one species, yet divided into many nations,
kingdoms, and tribes. These are all grouped under five races: 1. The
_Caucasian_, or white race, including the most highly civilized
nations; 2. The _Mongolian_, or yellow race, including the Tartars,
Chinese, Japanese, &c.; 3. The _Malay_, or brown race, including the
people of Malacca, and most of the Oceanic islands; 4. The _American_,
or red race, including the American Indians; and 5. The _African_, or
black race, including Negroes.

Philosophers have been a good deal puzzled for a definition of man; yet
it would seem by no means difficult to point out characteristics which
distinguish him from all other animated beings. He is not only the
acknowledged lord and master of the animal kingdom, but he is the only
being that knows God, yet the only one that worships stones, apes, and
idols; the only being that has the Bible, and the only one that makes
systematic warfare on his own species. He is the only created being
that perceives the force of moral obligation, and the only one that
makes slaves of his fellow-beings; he is the only creature that has
reason, and yet the only one that besots himself with intoxicating
drugs and drinks. Man is the only being that has tasted of the tree
of knowledge, and yet the only one that appears, in all ages and
countries, to be a _fallen being_,--one not fulfilling, here on the
earth, the purposes of his creation. Must we not, from the analogy of
the works of God, look to a future state, to find the true end of human
existence?

That we may not omit to give at least one illustrative and characteristic
anecdote, under the head of "_homo sapiens_," we copy the following from
the quaint pages of Carlyle:--

"What, speaking in quite unofficial language, is the net purport of
war? To my own knowledge, for example, there dwell and toil, in the
British village of Dumdrudge, usually, some five hundred souls. From
these, by certain 'natural enemies' of the French, there are
successively selected, during the French war, say thirty able-bodied
men. Dumdrudge, at her own expense, has suckled and nursed them; she
has, not without difficulty and sorrow, fed them up to manhood, and
even trained them to crafts--so that one can weave, another build,
another hammer, and the weakest can stand under thirty stone
avoirdupois. Nevertheless, amid much weeping and swearing, they are
selected, all dressed in red, and shipped away at the public charge
some 2000 miles, or, say, only to the south of Spain, and fed there
till wanted.

"And now to that same spot, in the south of Spain, are thirty similar
French artisans, from a French Dumdrudge, in like manner wending; till,
at length, after infinite effort, the parties come into actual
juxtaposition, and thirty stand fronting thirty, each with a gun in his
hand. Straightway the word 'Fire' is given, and they blow the souls out
of one another; and instead of sixty brisk, useful craftsmen, the world
has sixty dead carcasses, which it must bury, and anon shed tears for.
Had these men any quarrel? Busy as the devil is, not the smallest. They
lived far enough apart, were the entirest strangers; nay, in so wide a
universe, there was indeed unconsciously, by commerce, some mutual
helpfulness between them. How then? Simpleton! their governors had
fallen out; and instead of shooting one another, had the cunning to
make these poor blockheads shoot."




ORDER II.

QUADRUMANA,

FOUR-HANDED ANIMALS.


This numerous order of animals is divided into three families: 1.
_Apes_, which are destitute of tails; 2. _Baboons_, having short tails;
3. _Monkeys_, having long tails. The whole group are confined to warm
countries, and none but the latter kinds are met with in America. They
are not found in Europe, except at Gibraltar. Here, among the rocks,
are considerable numbers of apes; and it has been conjectured that they
come hither from the African coast, by means of passages under the
Straits. This idea, however, is groundless. No doubt these animals were
once common in Europe; but they have been gradually extirpated, except
at Gibraltar, where they have made a stand. Its rocks and caverns seem
to have proved as impregnable a garrison to them as to the British.


APES.

The ORANG-OUTANG;--a native of Cochin China, Malacca, and the large
adjacent islands. It has a countenance more like that of man than any
other animal. It seldom walks erect, and seems to make its home in the
trees. It is covered with reddish brown hair.

_An Orang-Outang in Holland._--This was a female, brought to that
country in 1776. She generally walked on all fours, like other apes,
but could also walk nearly erect. When, however, she assumed this
posture, her feet were not usually extended like those of a man, but
the toes were curved beneath, in such a manner that she rested chiefly
on the exterior sides of the feet. One morning she escaped from her
chain, and was seen to ascend with wonderful agility the beams and
oblique rafters of the building. With some trouble she was retaken, and
very extraordinary muscular powers were, on this occasion, remarked in
the animal. The efforts of four men were found necessary in order to
secure her. Two of them seized her by the legs, and a third by the
head, whilst the other fastened the collar round her body.

During the time she was at liberty, among other pranks, she had taken a
bottle of Malaga wine which she drank to the last drop, and then set
the bottle again in its place. She ate readily of any kind of food
which was presented to her; but her chief sustenance was bread, roots,
and fruit. She was particularly fond of carrots, strawberries, aromatic
plants, and roots of parsley. She also ate meat, boiled and roasted, as
well as fish, and was fond of eggs, the shells of which she broke with
her teeth, and then emptied by sucking out the contents. If
strawberries were presented to her on a plate, she would pick them up,
one by one, with a fork, and put them into her mouth, holding, at the
same time, the plate in the other hand. Her usual drink was water; but
she also would drink very eagerly all sorts of wine, and of Malaga, in
particular, she was very fond. While she was on shipboard, she ran
freely about the vessel, played with the sailors, and would go, like
them, into the kitchen for her mess. When, at the approach of night,
she was about to lie down, she would prepare the bed on which she slept
by shaking well the hay, and putting it in proper order; and, lastly,
would cover herself up snugly in the quilt.

One day, on noticing the padlock of her chain opened with a key, and
shut again, she seized a little bit of stick, and, putting it into the
keyhole, turned it about in all directions, endeavoring to open it.
When this animal first arrived in Holland, she was only two feet and a
half high, and was almost entirely free from hair on any part of her
body, except her back and arms; but, on the approach of winter, she
became thickly covered all over, and the hair on her back was at least
six inches long, of a chestnut color, except the face and paws, which
were somewhat of a reddish bronze color. This interesting brute died
after having been seven months in Holland.

_An Orang-Outang killed in Sumatra._--This specimen measured eight feet
in height when suspended for the purpose of being skinned. The form and
arrangement of his beard were beautiful; there was a great deal of the
human expression in his countenance, and his piteous actions when
wounded, and great tenacity of life, rendered the scene tragical and
affecting. On the spot where he was killed, there were five or six tall
trees, which greatly prolonged the combat; for so great were his
strength and agility in bounding from branch to branch, that his
pursuers were unable to take a determinate aim, until they had felled
all the trees but one. Even then he did not yield himself to his
antagonists till he had received five balls, and been moreover thrust
through with a spear. One of the first balls appears to have penetrated
his lungs, for he was observed immediately to sling himself by his feet
from a branch, with his head downwards, so as to allow the blood to
flow from his mouth. On receiving a wound, he always put his hand over
the injured part, and distressed his pursuers by the human-like agony
of his expression. When on the ground, after being exhausted by his
many wounds, he lay as if dead, with his head resting on his folded
arms. It was at this moment that an officer attempted to give him the
_coup-de-grace_ by pushing a spear through his body, but he immediately
jumped on his feet, wrested the weapon from his antagonist, and
shivered it in pieces. This was his last wound, and his last great
exertion; yet he lived some time afterwards, and drank, it is stated,
great quantities of water. Captain Cornfoot also observes, that the
animal had probably travelled some distance to the place where he was
killed, as his legs were covered with mud up to the knees.

_An Orang-Outang brought to England._--Dr. Clark Abel has given the
following interesting account of an orang-outang which he brought from
Java to England: "On board ship an attempt being made to secure him by
a chain tied to a strong staple, he instantly unfastened it, and ran
off with the chain dragging behind; but finding himself embarrassed by
its length, he coiled it once or twice, and threw it over his shoulder.
This feat he often repeated; and when he found that it would not remain
on his shoulder, he took it into his mouth. After several abortive
attempts to secure him more effectually, he was allowed to wander
freely about the ship, and soon became familiar with the sailors, and
surpassed them in agility. They often chased him about the rigging, and
gave him frequent opportunities of displaying his adroitness in
managing an escape. On first starting, he would endeavor to outstrip
his pursuers by mere speed; but when much pressed, eluded them by
seizing a loose rope, and swinging out of their reach. At other times,
he would patiently wait on the shrouds, or at the mast-head, till his
pursuers almost touched him, and then suddenly lower himself to the
deck by any rope that was near him, or bound along the main-stay from
one mast to the other, swinging by his hands, and moving them one over
the other. The men would often shake the ropes by which he clung with
so much violence, as to make me fear his falling; but I soon found that
the power of his muscles could not be easily overcome. When in a
playful humor, he would often swing within arm's length of his pursuer,
and having struck him with his hand, throw himself from him.

"Whilst in Java, he lodged in a large tamarind-tree near my dwelling,
and formed a bed by intertwining the small branches, and covering them
with leaves. During the day, he would lie with his head projecting
beyond his nest, watching whoever might pass under; and when he saw any
one with fruit, would descend to obtain a share of it. He always
retired for the night at sunset, or sooner if he had been well fed, and
rose with the sun, and visited those from whom he habitually received
food.

"Of some small monkeys on board from Java, he took little notice whilst
under the observation of the persons of the ship. Once, indeed, he
openly attempted to throw a small cage, containing three of them,
overboard; because, probably, he had seen them receive food, of which
he could obtain no part. But although he held so little intercourse
with them when under our inspection, I had reason to suspect that he
was less indifferent to their society when free from our observation;
and was one day summoned to the top-gallant-yard of the mizzen-mast, to
overlook him playing with a young male monkey. Lying on his back,
partially covered with a sail, he for some time contemplated, with
great gravity, the gambols of the monkey, which bounded over him; but
at length caught him by the tail, and tried to envelop him in his
covering. The monkey seemed to dislike his confinement, and broke from
him, but again renewed its gambols, and although frequently caught,
always escaped. The intercourse, however, did not seem to be that of
equals, for the orang-outang never condescended to romp with the
monkey, as he did with the boys of the ship. Yet the monkeys had
evidently a great predilection for his company; for whenever they broke
loose, they took their way to his resting-place, and were often seen
lurking about it, or creeping clandestinely towards him. There appeared
to be no gradation in their intimacy, as they appeared as confidently
familiar with him when first observed, as at the close of their
acquaintance.

"This animal neither practises the grimaces and antics of other
monkeys, nor possesses their perpetual proneness to mischief. Gravity,
approaching to melancholy, and mildness, were sometimes strongly
expressed in his countenance, and seemed to be the characteristics of
his disposition. When he first came among strangers, he would sit for
hours with his hand upon his head, looking pensively at all around him;
and when much incommoded by their examination, would hide himself
beneath any covering that was at hand. His mildness was evinced by his
forbearance under injuries, which were grievous before he was excited
to revenge; but he always avoided those who often teased him. He soon
became strongly attached to those who kindly used him. By their side he
was fond of sitting; and getting as close as possible to their persons,
would take their hands between his lips, and fly to them for
protection. From the boatswain of the Alceste, who shared his meals
with him, and was his chief favorite, although he sometimes purloined
the grog and the biscuit of his benefactor, he learned to eat with a
spoon; and might be often seen sitting at his cabin door, enjoying his
coffee, quite unembarrassed by those who observed him, and with a
grotesque and sober air, that seemed a burlesque on human nature.

"On board ship he commonly slept at the masthead, after wrapping
himself in a sail. In making his bed, he used the greatest pains to
remove every thing out of his way that might render the surface on
which he intended to lie uneven; and, having satisfied himself with
this part of his arrangement, spread out the sail, and, lying down upon
it on his back, drew it over his body. Sometimes I preoccupied his bed,
and teased him by refusing to give it up. On these occasions he would
endeavor to pull the sail from under me, or to force me from it, and
would not rest till I had resigned it. If it were large enough for
both, he would quietly lie by my side.

"His food in Java was chiefly fruit, especially mangostans, of which he
was extremely fond. He also sucked eggs with voracity, and often
employed himself in seeking them. On board ship his diet was of no
definite kind. He ate readily of all kinds of meat, and especially raw
meat; was very fond of bread, but always preferred fruits, when he
could obtain them.

"His beverage in Java was water; on board ship, it was as diversified
as his food. He preferred coffee and tea, but would readily take wine,
and exemplified his attachment to spirits by stealing the captain's
brandy bottle. Since his arrival in London, he has preferred beer and
milk to any thing else, but drinks wine and other liquors.

"I have seen him exhibit violent alarm on three occasions only, when he
appeared to seek for safety in gaining as high an elevation as
possible. On seeing eight large turtles brought on board, whilst the
Cæsar was off the Island of Ascension, he climbed with all possible
speed to a higher part of the ship than he had ever before reached,
and, looking down upon them, projected his long lips into the form of a
hog's snout, uttering, at the same time, a sound which might be
described as between the croaking of a frog and the grunting of a pig.
After some time, he ventured to descend, but with great caution,
peeping continually at the turtles, but could not be induced to
approach within many yards of them. He ran to the same height, and
uttered the same sounds, on seeing some men bathing and splashing in
the sea; and since his arrival in England, has shown nearly the same
degree of fear at the sight of a live tortoise."

This animal survived his transportation to England from August, 1817,
when he arrived, to the 1st April, 1819; during which interval he was
in the custody of Mr. Cross, at Exeter 'Change, as much caressed for
the gentleness of his disposition as he was noticed for his great
rarity. There was no need of personal confinement, and little of
restraint or coercion; to his keepers, especially, and to those whom he
knew by their frequent visits, he displayed a decided partiality.
During his last illness, and at his death, his piteous appearance,
which seemed to bespeak his entreaties to those about him for relief,
did not fail to excite the feelings of all who witnessed them--an
excitement evidently heightened by the recollection of human suffering
under similar circumstances, which the sight of this animal so strongly
brought to mind.

The CHIMPANSÉ;--a native of Guinea and Congo, in Africa. Its frame is
more analogous to that of man than to that of any other tribe, and it
is the only one that can walk erect with ease. It lives in troops, uses
stones and clubs as weapons, and was mistaken for a species of wild
man, by early voyagers along the African coast.

_The Chimpansé on Board a Vessel._--M. De Grandpré, speaking of the
Chimpansé, says that "his sagacity is extraordinary; he generally walks
upon two legs, supporting himself with a stick. The negro fears him,
and not without reason, as he sometimes treats him very roughly. He
saw, on board a vessel, a female chimpansé, which exhibited wonderful
proofs of intelligence. Among other arts, she had learnt to heat the
oven; she took great care not to let any of the coals fall out, which
might have done mischief in the ship; and she was very accurate in
observing when the oven was heated to the proper degree, of which she
immediately apprized the baker, who, relying with perfect confidence
upon her information, carried his dough to the oven as soon as the
chimpansé came to fetch him. This animal performed all the business of
a sailor, spliced ropes, handled the sails, and assisted at unfurling
them; and she was, in fact, considered by the sailors as one of
themselves.

"The vessel was bound for America; but the poor animal did not live to
see that country, having fallen a victim to the brutality of the first
mate, who inflicted very cruel chastisement upon her, which she had not
deserved. She endured it with the greatest patience, only holding out
her hands in a suppliant attitude, in order to break the force of the
blows she received. But from that moment she steadily refused to take
any food, and died on the fifth day from grief and hunger. She was
lamented by every person on board, not insensible to the feelings of
humanity, who knew the circumstances of her fate."

The GIBBON;--a native of Sumatra, Borneo, and Malacca. The arms are of
immense length, and the hands and feet are formed for clinging to the
limbs of trees, where it throws itself from branch to branch with
surprising agility. The expression of the face is gentle, and rather
melancholy. There are many species, all of which utter loud cries.

_The nimble Gibbon, at the Zoological Gardens in London._--"This
specimen," says the editor of the Penny Magazine, "was a female, and
had been four years in captivity at Macao, previous to her arrival in
this country. On entering the apartment in which she was to be kept,
where a large space, and a tree full of branches, were allotted for her
accommodation, she sprang upon the tree, and, using her hands in
alternate succession, she launched herself from bough to bough with
admirable grace and address, sometimes to the distance of twelve or
eighteen feet. Her flight might be termed aërial, for she seemed
scarcely to touch the branches in her progress. It was curious to
witness how abruptly she would stop in her most rapid flight. Suddenly
as thought, she would raise her body, and sit quietly gazing at the
astonished spectators of her gymnastics.

"She possessed great quickness of eye; and apples, and other fruit,
were often thrown at her with great rapidity, but she always caught
them without an effort. On one occasion, a live bird was set at liberty
in her apartment. She marked its flight, made a spring to a distant
branch, caught the bird with one hand, on her passage, and attained the
branch with her other hand. She instantly bit off the head of the bird,
picked off its feathers, and threw it down, without attempting to eat
it.

"While exerting herself in feats of agility, the gibbon ever and anon
uttered her call-notes, consisting of the syllables _oo-ah_, _oo-ah_,
in a succession of ascending and descending semitones, during the
execution of which, the lips and frame vibrated. The tones were not
unmusical, but deafening, from their loudness.

"In disposition, this creature was timid, being apparently afraid of
men, but allowing women to come near her, and stroke her fur, and pat
her hands and feet. Her eye was quick, and she seemed to be perpetually
on the watch, scrutinizing every person who entered the room. After
exercising in the morning from three to four hours, she would, if
allowed, spend the rest of the day quietly on one of the branches."


THE BABOON.

This is a large and ferocious species of ape, common in the south of
Africa, and Asia.

_Le Vaillant's Baboon._--This celebrated traveller, while in Africa,
had a dog-faced baboon, whom he called _Kees_. He accompanied his
master in his wanderings, and of his way of life we have the following
sketches: "I made him," says Le Vaillant, "my taster. Whenever we found
fruits, or roots, with which my Hottentots were unacquainted, we did
not touch them till Kees had tasted them. If he threw them away, we
concluded that they were either of a disagreeable flavor, or of a
pernicious quality, and left them untasted. The ape possesses a
peculiar property, wherein he differs greatly from other animals, and
resembles man--namely, that he is by nature equally gluttonous and
inquisitive. Without necessity, and without appetite, he tastes every
thing that falls in his way, or that is given to him.

"But Kees had a still more valuable quality: he was an excellent
sentinel; for, whether by day or night, he immediately sprang up on the
slightest appearance of danger. By his cry, and the symptoms of fear
which he exhibited, we were always apprized of the approach of an
enemy, even though the dogs perceived nothing of it. The latter at
length learned to rely upon him with such confidence, that they slept
on in perfect tranquillity. I often took Kees with me when I went
a-hunting; and when he saw me preparing for sport, he exhibited the
most lively demonstrations of joy. On the way, he would climb into the
trees, to look for gum, of which he was very fond. Sometimes he
discovered to me honey, deposited in the clefts of rocks, or hollow
trees. But if he happened to have met with neither honey nor gum, and
his appetite had become sharp by his running about, I always witnessed
a very ludicrous scene. In those cases, he looked for roots, which he
ate with great greediness, especially a particular kind, which, to his
cost, I also found to be very well tasted and refreshing, and therefore
insisted upon sharing with him. But Kees was no fool. As soon as he
found such a root, and I was not near enough to seize upon my share of
it, he devoured it in the greatest haste, keeping his eyes all the
while riveted on me. He accurately measured the distance I had to pass
before I could get to him, and I was sure of coming too late.
Sometimes, however, when he had made a mistake in his calculation, and
I came upon him sooner than he expected, he endeavored to hide the
root--in which case, I compelled him, by a box on the ear, to give me
up my share.

"When Kees happened to tire on the road, he mounted upon the back of
one of my dogs, who was so obliging as to carry him whole hours. One of
them, that was larger and stronger than the rest, hit upon a very
ingenious artifice, to avoid being pressed into this piece of service.
As soon as Kees leaped upon his back, he stood still, and let the train
pass, without moving from the spot. Kees still persisted in his
intention, till we were almost out of his sight, when he found himself
at length compelled to dismount, upon which both the baboon and dog
exerted all their speed to overtake us. The latter, however, gave him
the start, and kept a good look-out after him, that he might not serve
him in the same manner again. In fact, Kees enjoyed a certain authority
with all my dogs, for which he perhaps was indebted to the superiority
of his instinct. He could not endure a competitor if any of the dogs
came too near him when he was eating, he gave him a box on the ear,
which compelled him immediately to retire to a respectful distance.

"Like most other domestic animals, Kees was addicted to stealing. He
understood admirably well how to loose the strings of a basket, in
order to take victuals out of it, especially milk, of which he was very
fond. My people chastised him for these thefts; but that did not make
him amend his conduct. I myself sometimes whipped him; but then he ran
away, and did not return again to the tent until it grew dark. Once, as
I was about to dine, and had put the beans, which I had boiled for
myself, upon a plate, I heard the voice of a bird with which I was not
acquainted. I left my dinner standing, seized my gun, and ran out of
the tent. After the space of about a quarter of an hour, I returned,
with the bird in my hand; but, to my astonishment, found not a single
bean upon the plate. Kees had stolen them all, and taken himself out of
the way.

"When he had committed any trespass of this kind, he used always, about
the time when I drank tea, to return quietly, and seat himself in his
usual place, with every appearance of innocence, as if nothing had
happened; but this evening he did not let himself be seen. And on the
following day also he was not seen by any of us; and, in consequence, I
began to grow seriously uneasy about him, and apprehensive that he
might be lost forever. But, on the third day, one of my people, who had
been to fetch water, informed me that he had seen Kees in the
neighborhood; but that, as soon as the animal espied him, he had
concealed himself again. I immediately went out and beat the whole
neighborhood with my dogs. All at once, I heard a cry like that which
Kees used to make when I returned from my shooting, and had not taken
him with me. I looked about, and at length espied him, endeavoring to
hide himself behind the large branches of a tree. I now called to him
in a friendly tone of voice, and made motions to him to come down to
me. But he could not trust me, and I was obliged to climb up the tree
to fetch him. He did not attempt to fly, and we returned together to my
quarters: here he expected to receive his punishment; but I did
nothing, as it would have been of no use.

"When any eatables had been pilfered at my quarters, the fault was
always laid first upon Kees; and rarely was the accusation unfounded.
For a time, the eggs, which a hen laid me, were constantly stolen away,
and I wished to ascertain whether I had to attribute this loss also to
him. For this purpose I went one morning to watch him, and waited till
the hen announced, by her cackling, that she had laid an egg. Kees was
sitting upon my vehicle; but, the moment he heard the hen's voice, he
leaped down, and was running to fetch the egg. When he saw me, he
suddenly stopped, and affected a careless posture, swaying himself
backwards upon his hind legs, and assuming a very innocent look; in
short, he employed all his art to deceive me with respect to his
design. His hypocritical manoeuvres only confirmed my suspicions;
and, in order, in my turn, to deceive him, I pretended not to attend to
him, and turned my back to the bush where the hen was cackling, upon
which he immediately sprang to the place. I ran after him, and came up
to him at the moment when he had broken the egg, and was swallowing it.
Having caught the thief in the fact, I gave him a good beating upon the
spot; but this severe chastisement did not prevent his soon stealing
fresh-laid eggs again.

"As I was convinced that I should never be able to break Kees off his
natural vices, and that, unless I chained him up every morning, I
should never get an egg, I endeavored to accomplish my purpose in
another manner: I trained one of my dogs, as soon as the hen cackled,
to run to the nest, and bring me the egg, without breaking it. In a few
days, the dog had learned his lesson; but Kees, as soon as he heard the
hen cackle, ran with him to the nest. A contest now took place between
them, who should have the egg: often the dog was foiled, although he
was the stronger of the two. If he gained the victory, he ran joyfully
to me with the egg, and put it into my hand. Kees, nevertheless,
followed him, and did not cease to grumble and make threatening
grimaces at him, till he saw me take the egg,--as if he was comforted
for the loss of his booty by his adversary's not retaining it for
himself. If Kees got hold of the egg, he endeavored to run with it to a
tree, where, having devoured it, he threw down the shells upon his
adversary, as if to make game of him. In that case, the dog returned,
looking ashamed, from which I could conjecture the unlucky adventure he
had met with.

"Kees was always the first awake in the morning, and, when it was the
proper time, he aroused the dogs, who were accustomed to his voice,
and, in general, obeyed, without hesitation, the slightest motions by
which he communicated his orders to them, immediately taking their
posts about the tent and carriage, as he directed them."

_A droll Mimic._--A clergyman of some distinction, in England, had a
tame baboon, which became so fond of him, that, wherever he went, it
was always desirous of accompanying him. Whenever, therefore, he had to
perform the service of his church, he was under the necessity of
shutting it up in his room.

Once, however, the animal escaped, and followed his master to the
church; and, silently mounting the sounding-board above the pulpit, he
lay perfectly still till the sermon commenced. He then crept to the
edge, and, overlooking the preacher, imitated his gestures in so
grotesque a manner, that the whole congregation was unavoidably made to
laugh.

The minister, surprised and confounded at this levity, severely rebuked
his audience for their conduct. The reproof failed of its intended
effect. The congregation still laughed, and the preacher, in the warmth
of his zeal, redoubled his vociferation and action. This last the ape
imitated so exactly, that the congregation could no longer restrain
themselves, but burst into a long and loud roar of laughter.

A friend of the preacher at length stepped up to him, and pointed out
the cause of this apparently improper conduct; and such was the arch
demeanor of the animal, that it was with the utmost difficulty that the
parson himself could maintain his gravity, while he ordered the sexton
to take the creature away.

MISCELLANEOUS ANECDOTES.--Immense troops of baboons inhabit the
mountains in the neighborhood of the Cape of Good Hope, whence they
descend to the plains, to devastate the gardens and orchards. In their
plundering excursions they are very cunning, always placing sentinels,
to prevent the main body from being surprised. They break the fruit to
pieces, cram it into their cheek-pouches, and keep it until hungry.
Whenever the sentinel discovers a man approaching, he sets up a loud
yell, which makes the whole troop retreat with the utmost precipitation.
They have been known to steal behind an unwary traveller resting near
their retreats, and carry off his food, which they would eat at a
little distance from him; and with absurd grimaces and gestures, in
ridicule, offer it back; at the same time greedily devouring it.

The following account is given by Lade: "We traversed a great mountain
in the neighborhood of the Cape of Good Hope, and amused ourselves with
hunting large baboons, which are very numerous in that place. I can
neither describe all the arts practised by these animals, nor the
nimbleness and impudence with which they returned, after being pursued
by us. Sometimes they allowed us to approach so near that I was almost
certain of seizing them. But, when I made the attempt, they sprang, at
a single leap, ten paces from me, and mounted trees with equal agility,
from whence they looked at us with great indifference, and seemed to
derive pleasure from our astonishment. Some of them were so large that,
if our interpreter had not assured us they were neither ferocious nor
dangerous, our number would not have appeared sufficient to protect us
from their attacks.

"As it could serve no purpose to kill them, we did not use our guns.
But the captain levelled his piece at a very large one, that had rested
on the top of a tree, after having fatigued us a long time in pursuing
him; this kind of menace, of which the animal, perhaps, recollected his
having sometimes seen the consequences, terrified him to such a degree,
that he fell down motionless at our feet, and we had no difficulty in
seizing him; but when he recovered from his stupor, it required all our
dexterity and efforts to keep him. We tied his paws together; but he
bit so furiously, that we were under the necessity of binding our
handkerchiefs over his head."

The common baboon is very numerous in Siam, where they frequently sally
forth in astonishing multitudes to attack the villages, during the time
the peasants are occupied in the rice harvest, and plunder their
habitations of whatever provisions they can lay their paws on. Fruits,
corn, and roots, are their usual food, although they will also eat
flesh. When hunted, baboons often make very formidable resistance to
dogs--their great strength and long claws enabling them to make a stout
defence; and it is with difficulty a single dog can overcome them,
except when they are gorged with excessive eating, in which they always
indulge when they can.

Some years ago, Mr. Rutter, doing duty at the castle of Cape Town, kept
a tame baboon for his amusement. One evening it broke its chain unknown
to him. In the night, climbing up into the belfry, it began to play
with, and ring the bell. Immediately the whole place was in an uproar,
some great danger being apprehended. Many thought that the castle was
on fire; others, that an enemy had entered the bay; and the soldiers
began actually to turn out, when it was discovered that the baboon had
occasioned the disturbance. On the following morning, a court-martial
was summoned, when Cape justice dictated, that, "Whereas Master
Rutter's baboon had unnecessarily put the castle into alarm, the master
should receive fifty lashes;" Mr. Rutter, however, found means to evade
the punishment.

The following circumstance is characteristic of the imitative
disposition of the baboon: The army of Alexander the Great marched, in
complete battle array, into a country inhabited by great numbers of
these apes, and encamped there for the night. The next morning, when
the army was about to proceed on its march, the soldiers saw, at some
distance, an enormous number of baboons, drawn up in rank and file,
like a small army, with such regularity that the Macedonians, who could
have no idea of such a manoeuvre, imagined at first that it was the
enemy, prepared to receive them.

The ape-catchers of Africa, it is said, take a vessel filled with
water, and wash their hands and face in a situation where they are sure
to be observed by the apes. After having done so, the water is poured
out, and its place supplied by a solution of glue; they leave the spot,
and the apes then seldom fail to come down from their trees, and wash
themselves in the same manner as they have seen the men do before them.
The consequence is, that they glue their eyelashes so fast together,
that they cannot open their eyes, or see to escape from their enemy.

The ape is fond of spirituous liquors, and these are also used for the
purpose of entrapping them. A person places, in their sight, a number
of vessels filled with ardent spirits, pretends to drink, and retires.
The apes, ever attentive to the proceedings of man, descend, and
imitate what they have seen, become intoxicated, fall asleep, and are
thus rendered an easy conquest to their cunning adversaries.

The people of India make the proneness of apes to imitation useful;
for, when they wish to collect cocoa-nuts, and other fruits, they go to
the woods where these grow, which are generally frequented by apes and
monkeys, gather a few heaps, and withdraw. As soon as they are gone,
the apes fall to work, imitate every thing they have seen done; and
when they have gathered together a considerable number of heaps, the
people approach, the apes fly to the trees, and the harvest is conveyed
home.

Apes and monkeys, in many parts of India, are made objects of religious
veneration, and magnificent temples are erected to their honor. In
these countries, they propagate to an alarming extent; they enter
cities in immense troops, and even venture into the houses. In some
places, as in the kingdom of Calicut, the natives find it necessary to
have their windows latticed, to prevent the ingress of these intruders,
who lay hands without scruple upon every eatable within their reach.
There are three hospitals for monkeys in Amadabad, the capital of
Guzerat, where the sick and lame are fed and relieved by medical
attendants.

Bindrabund, a town of Agra, in India, is in high estimation with the
pious Hindoos, who resort to it from the most remote parts of the
empire, on account of its being the favorite residence of the god
Krishna. The town is embosomed in groves of trees, which, according to
the account of Major Thorn, are the residence of innumerable apes,
whose propensity to mischief is increased by the religious respect paid
to them, in honor of Hunaman, a divinity of the Hindoo mythology,
wherein he is characterized under the form of an ape. In consequence of
this degrading superstition, such numbers of these animals are
supported by the voluntary contributions of pilgrims, that no one dares
to resist or molest them. Hence, access to the town is often difficult;
for, should one of the apes take an antipathy against any unhappy
traveller, he is sure to be assailed by the whole community, who follow
him with all the missile weapons they can collect, such as pieces of
bamboo, stones, and dirt, making at the same time a most hideous
howling.

A striking instance of the audacity of the ape, in attacking the human
species, is related by M. Mollien, in his Travels in Africa. A woman,
going with millet and milk to a vessel, from St. Louis, which had been
stopped before a village in the country of Golam, was attacked by a
troop of apes, from three to four feet high; they first threw stones at
her, on which she began to run away; they then ran after her, and,
having caught her, they commenced beating her with sticks, until she
let go what she was carrying. On returning to the village, she related
her adventure to the principal inhabitants, who mounted their horses,
and, followed by their dogs, went to the place which served as a
retreat to this troop of marauders. They fired at them, killed ten, and
wounded others, which were brought to them by the dogs; but several
negroes were severely wounded in this encounter, either by the stones
hurled at them by the apes, or by their bites; the females, especially,
were most furious in revenging the death of their young ones, which
they carried in their arms.

D'Obsonville, speaking of the sacred haunts of apes in different parts
of India, says that, in the course of his travels through that country,
he occasionally went into the ancient temples, in order to rest
himself. He noticed always that several of the apes, which abounded
there, first observed him attentively, then looked inquisitively at the
food which he was about to take, betraying, by their features and
gestures, the great desire which they felt to partake of it with him.
In order to amuse himself upon such occasions, he was generally
provided with a quantity of dried peas; of these he first scattered
some on the side where the leader stood,--for, according to his
account, the apes always obey some particular one as their
leader,--upon which the animal gradually approached nearer, and
gathered them eagerly up. He then held out a handful to the animal;
and, as they seldom meet a person who harbors any hostile intentions
against them, the creature ventured slowly to approach, cautiously
watching, as it seemed, lest any trick might be played upon him. At
length, becoming bolder, he laid hold, with one of his paws, of the
thumb of the hand in which the peas were held out to him, while, with
the other, he carried them to his mouth, keeping his eyes all the while
fixed upon those of M. d'Obsonville.

"If I happened to laugh," he observes, "or to move myself, the ape
immediately gave over eating, worked his lips, and made a kind of
growling noise, the meaning of which was rendered very intelligible to
me by his long, canine teeth, which he occasionally exhibited. If I
threw some of the peas to a distance from him, he sometimes seemed
pleased to see other apes pick them up; though, at other times, he
grumbled at it, and attacked those who approached too near to me. The
noise which he made, and the apprehensions he showed, though they
might, perhaps, proceed in some measure from his own greediness,
evidently proved, however, that he feared I might take advantage of
their weakness, and so make them prisoners. I also observed, that those
whom he suffered to approach the nearest to me were always the largest
and strongest of the males; the young and the females he obliged to
keep at a considerable distance from me."


MONKEYS.

Of this numerous and frolicsome family, there is a great variety in the
hot regions of both continents. In some portions of South America, they
enliven the landscape by their gambols, and make the forests resound
with their cries. They are the smallest and most lively of the
four-handed family, and in all caravans, they are the favorites of
young observers.

_The Fair Monkey._--This is one of the most beautiful of the tribe. Its
head is small and round: its face and hands are of scarlet, so defined
and vivid that it has more the appearance of art than nature. Its body
and limbs are covered with long hairs of the purest white, and of a
shining and silvery brightness: the tail is of a deep chestnut color,
very glistening, and considerably longer than the body. This animal is
somewhat larger than the striated monkey. It is an inhabitant of South
America, and is frequently to be met with on the banks of the Amazon.

The following circumstance, exhibiting the fickleness of the fair
monkey, was communicated to Mr. Bewick by Sir John Trevelyan. "Pug was
a gentleman of excellent humor, and adored by the crew; and, to make
him perfectly happy, as they imagined, they procured him a wife. For
some weeks he was a devoted husband, and showed her every attention and
respect. He then grew cool, and became jealous of any kind of civility
shown her by the master of the vessel, and began to use her with much
cruelty. His treatment made her wretched and dull; though she bore the
spleen of her husband with that fortitude which is characteristic of
the female sex of the human species. Pug, however, like the lords of
creation, was up to deceit, and practised pretended kindness to his
spouse, to effect a diabolical scheme, which he seemed to premeditate.
One morning, when the sea ran very high, he seduced her aloft, and drew
her observation to an object at some distance from the yard-arm; her
attention being fixed, he all of a sudden applied his paw to her rear,
and canted her into the sea, where she fell a victim to his cruelty.
This seemed to afford him high gratification, for he descended in great
spirits."

_A Trick._--In 1818, a vessel that sailed between Whitehaven, in
England, and Jamaica, embarked on her homeward voyage, and, among other
passengers, carried Mrs. B., and an infant five weeks old. One
beautiful afternoon, the captain perceived a distant sail; and, after
he had gratified his curiosity, he politely offered the glass to the
lady, that she might obtain a clear view of the object. She had the
baby in her arms, but now she wrapped her shawl about it, and placed it
on a sofa, upon which she had been sitting.

Scarcely had she applied her eye to the glass, when the helmsman
exclaimed, "See what the mischievous monkey has done!" The reader may
judge of the mother's feelings, when, on turning round, she beheld the
animal in the act of transporting her child apparently up to the top of
the mast. The monkey was a very large one, and so strong and active,
that, while it grasped the infant firmly with one arm, it climbed the
shrouds nimbly by the other, totally unembarrassed by the weight of its
burden.

One look was enough for the terrified mother; and had it not been for
the assistance of those around her, she would have fallen prostrate on
the deck, where she was soon afterwards stretched, apparently a
lifeless corpse. The sailors could climb as well as the monkey, but the
latter watched their motions narrowly; and, as it ascended higher up
the mast the moment they attempted to put a foot on the shroud, the
captain became afraid that it would drop the child, and endeavor to
escape by leaping from one mast to another.

In the mean time, the little innocent was heard to cry; and though many
thought it was suffering pain, their fears on this point were speedily
dissipated, when they observed the monkey imitating exactly the motions
of a nurse, by dandling, soothing, and caressing, its charge, and even
endeavoring to hush it to sleep.

From the deck, the lady was conveyed to the cabin, and gradually
restored to her senses. In the mean time, the captain ordered the men
to conceal themselves carefully below, and quietly took his own station
on the cabin stairs, where he could see all that passed, without being
seen. The plan happily succeeded. The monkey, on perceiving that the
coast was clear, cautiously descended from his lofty perch, and
replaced the infant on the sofa, cold, fretful, and perhaps frightened,
but, in every other respect, as free from harm as when he took it up.
The captain had now a most grateful office to perform; the babe was
restored to its mother's arms, amidst tears, and thanks, and blessings.

_A Tragedy in the Woods._--An Englishman travelling in India tells
the following interesting, though painful, story:--

"I was strolling through a wood, with my gun on my shoulders, my
thoughts all centred in Europe, when I heard a curious noise in a tree
above me. I looked up, and found that the sounds proceeded from a white
monkey, who skipped from branch to branch, chattering with delight at
beholding a 'fellow-creature,' for so he decidedly seemed to consider
me. For a few moments I took no notice of his antics, and walked
quietly along, till suddenly a large branch fell at my feet, narrowly
escaping my head. I again paused, and found that the missile had been
dropped by my talkative friend. Without consideration, I instantly
turned round and fired at him.

"The report had scarcely sounded, when I heard the most piercing, the
most distressing cry, that ever reached my ears. An agonized shriek,
like that of a young infant, burst from the little creature that I had
wounded. It was within thirty paces of me. I could see the wretched
animal, already stained with blood, point to its wound, and again hear
its dreadful moan.

"The agony of a hare is harrowing, and I have seen a young sportsman
turn pale on hearing it. The present cry was, however, more
distressing. I turned round, and endeavored to hurry away. This,
however, I found no easy task; for, as I moved forward, the unhappy
creature followed me, springing as well as he could from bough to
bough, uttering a low, wailing moan, and pointing at the same time to
the spot whence the blood trickled. Then, regarding me steadily and
mournfully in the face, it seemed to reproach me with my wanton
cruelty. Again I hastened on, but still it pursued me. Never, in my
life, did I feel so much for a dumb animal: never did I so keenly
repent an act of uncalled-for barbarity.

"Determined not to allow the poor monkey thus to linger in torture, and
at once to end the annoying scene, I suddenly came to a halt; and,
lowering my gun, which was only single-barrelled, I was about to reload
it for the purpose of despatching the maimed creature, when, springing
from a tree, it ran up to within a dozen paces of me, and began to cry
so piteously, and roll itself in agony, occasionally picking up earth,
with which it attempted to stanch the blood by stuffing it into the
wound, that, in spite of my resolution, when I fired, I was so nervous,
I almost missed my aim, inflicting another wound, which broke the
animal's leg, but nothing more. Again, its piercing shriek rang in my
ears. Horrified beyond endurance, I threw down my gun, and actually
fled.

"In about half an hour, I returned, for the purpose of getting my gun,
fully expecting that the poor animal had left the spot. What, then, was
my surprise, to find a crowd of monkeys surrounding the wretched
sufferer, and busily employed in tearing open its wounds! A shout drove
them all away, except the dying animal. I advanced. The little creature
was rolling in agony. I took up my gun, which lay beside him, and
fancied he cast one look of supplication on me--one prayer to be
relieved from his misery. I did not hesitate; with one blow of the
butt-end, I dashed out his brains. Then turning round, I slowly
returned to my quarters, more profoundly dispirited than I had felt for
many months.--Take my advice, reader; if you must live in India, never
shoot a monkey."

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--We are told of a king of Egypt who was so
successful in training monkeys to the art of dancing, that they were
long admired for the dexterity and gracefulness of their movements. On
one occasion, his majesty had a ball, at which a vast number of these
animals "tripped it on the light, fantastic toe." A citizen, who
enjoyed fun, threw a few handfuls of walnuts into the ball-room, while
these picturesque animals were engaged in a high dance, upon which they
forgot all decorum, and sprang to the booty.

A monkey, which was kept on board a British frigate, was the favorite
of all on board but the midshipmen. This animal knew well of a large
store of apples being in a locker in the wardroom, which was kept
constantly secure, in consequence of his propensity for plundering it.
He, however, fell upon ways and means to secure his booty. He procured
a piece of wadding, swung himself from the stern gallery by one hand,
and, with this in the other, broke a pane of glass in the wardroom
window; and, after carefully picking out all the broken pieces of
glass, made his entrance, where he gorged himself so fully, that he was
unable to effect his retreat by the place where he entered. He was
caught in the fact, and soundly flogged.

A singular piece of ingenuity was once practised by a monkey, in
defending himself against fire-arms. This animal belonged to Captain
M----, of the navy, who had also another small monkey, of which he was
very fond, from its lively playfulness. The larger animal was often
exceedingly troublesome, and could not be driven from his cabin,
without _blazing_ at him with a pistol loaded with powder and currant
jelly,--a discharge which produced a painful and alarming effect. The
old monkey was at first astounded at the sight of the weapon, which
stung him so sore, that he at last learned a mode of defence; for,
snatching up the little favorite, he used to interpose him as a shield
between the pistol and his body.

In one of his excursions, Le Vaillant killed a female monkey, which
carried a young one on her back. The latter continued to cling to her
dead parent till they reached their evening quarters; and the
assistance of a negro was even then required to disengage it. No
sooner, however, did it feel itself alone, than it darted towards a
wooden block, on which was placed the wig of Le Vaillant's father. To
this it clung most pertinaciously by its fore paws; and such was the
force of this deceptive instinct, that it remained in the same position
for about three weeks, all this time evidently mistaking the wig for
its mother. It was fed, from time to time, with goat's milk; and, at
length, emancipated itself voluntarily, by quitting the fostering care
of the peruke. The confidence which it ere long assumed, and the
amusing familiarity of its manners, soon rendered it a favorite with
the family. The unsuspecting naturalist had, however, introduced a wolf
in sheep's clothing into his dwelling; for, one morning, on entering
his chamber, the door of which had been imprudently left open, he
beheld his young favorite making a hearty breakfast on a collection of
insects which he had made. In the first transports of his anger, he
resolved to strangle the monkey in his arms; but his rage immediately
gave way to pity, when he perceived that the crime of its voracity had
carried the punishment along with it. In eating the beetles, it had
swallowed several of the pins on which they were transfixed. Its agony,
consequently, became great, and all his efforts were unable to preserve
its life.




ORDER III.

CARNARIA,

BUTCHERING ANIMALS.


This order includes bats, hedgehogs, bears, dogs, wolves, foxes, lions,
weasels, &c.


BATS.

These creatures, partaking both of the nature of quadrupeds and birds,
have excited the wonder of mankind in all ages. There is a great
variety of species, from the common bat of our climate to the vampyre
of South America, whose wings stretch to the extent of two feet. These
animals live in caves and crevices during the day, and sally forth at
evening to catch their prey. For this reason, there is a popular
disgust of the whole tribe; yet the species in our climate are a
harmless race. We cannot say as much of the larger kinds, which
sometimes darken the air, by their abundance, in hot climates. One
species, already mentioned, is a formidable animal.

Captain Stedman, in his "Narrative of a Five Years' Expedition against
the revolted Negroes of Surinam," relates that, on awaking about four
o'clock one morning in his hammock, he was extremely alarmed at finding
himself weltering in congealed blood, and without feeling any pain
whatever. "The mystery was," says Captain Stedman, "that I had been
bitten by the vampyre, or spectre of Guiana, which is also called the
flying dog of New Spain; and by the Spaniards, _perrovolador_. This is
no other than a bat of monstrous size, that sucks the blood from men
and cattle, while they are fast asleep, even, sometimes, till they die;
and, as the manner in which they proceed is truly wonderful, I shall
endeavor to give a distinct account of it.

"Knowing, by instinct, that the person they intend to attack is in a
sound slumber, they generally alight near the feet, where, while the
creature continues fanning with his enormous wings, which keeps one
cool, he bites a piece out of the tip of the great toe, so very small,
indeed, that the head of a pin could scarcely be received into the
wound, which is, consequently, not painful; yet, through this orifice,
he continues to suck the blood, until he is obliged to disgorge. He
then begins again, and thus continues sucking and disgorging until he
is scarcely able to fly, and the sufferer has often been known to pass
from time to eternity. Cattle they generally bite in the ear, but
always in places where the blood flows spontaneously. Having applied
tobacco ashes as the best remedy, and washed the gore from myself and
hammock, I observed several small heaps of congealed blood, all round
the place where I had lain, upon the ground; on examining which, the
surgeon judged that I had lost at least twelve or fourteen ounces of
blood."

"Some years ago," says Mr. Waterton, in his "Wanderings in South
America," "I went to the River Paumaron, with a Scotch gentleman, by
name Tarbet. We hung our hammocks in the thatched loft of a planter's
house. Next morning, I heard this gentleman muttering in his hammock,
and now and then letting fall an imprecation or two, just about the
time he ought to have been saying his morning prayers. 'What is the
matter, sir?' said I, softly; 'is any thing amiss?' 'What's the
matter?' answered he, surlily; 'why, the vampyres have been sucking me
to death.' As soon as there was light enough, I went to his hammock,
and saw it much stained with blood. 'There,' said he, thrusting his
foot out of the hammock, 'see how these infernal imps have been drawing
my life's blood.' On examining his foot, I found the vampyre had tapped
his great toe. There was a wound somewhat less than that made by a
leech. The blood was still oozing from it. I conjectured he might have
lost from ten to twelve ounces of blood. Whilst examining it, I think I
put him into a worse humor, by remarking that a European surgeon would
not have been so generous as to have blooded him without making a
charge. He looked up in my face, but did not say a word. I saw he was
of opinion that I had better have spared this piece of ill-timed
levity."


HEDGEHOG.

This animal belongs exclusively to the eastern continent, and is well
known from the thick and sharp prickles with which its back and sides
are covered, and the contractile power by which it can draw its head
and belly within the prickly covering of its back, so as to give it the
appearance of a ball. It is found near hedges and thickets, from the
fruits and herbage of which it obtains its food. It also feeds upon
small animals, such as snails and beetles.

The sagacity of the hedgehog is celebrated in antiquity. We are
informed by Plutarch, that a citizen of Cyzicus thus acquired the
reputation of a good meteorologist: A hedgehog generally has its burrow
open in various points; and, when its instinct warns it of an
approaching change of the wind, it stops up the aperture towards that
quarter. The citizen alluded to, becoming aware of this practice, was
able to predict to what point the wind would next shift.

Though of a very timid disposition, the hedgehog has been sometimes
tamed. In the year 1790, there was one in the possession of a Mr.
Sample, in Northumberland, which performed the duty of a turnspit as
well, in all respects, as the dog of that denomination. It ran about
the house with the same familiarity as any other domestic animal.

In the London Sporting Magazine for 1821, there is an account of one,
which, after having been tamed in a garden, found its way to the
scullery, and there made regular search for the relics of the dinner
plates; having its retreat in the adjoining cellar. It was fed after
the manner itself had selected. Milk was given in addition to the meat;
but it lost its relish for vegetables, and constantly rejected them. It
soon became as well domesticated as the cat, and lived on a footing of
intimacy with it.


THE MOLE.

Of this animal there are several species; they burrow in the earth, and
form avenues from one nest to another, like the crossing streets of a
city. Their eyes are small, and so buried in fur as to be invisible,
except on close inspection.

_Mole-Catching._--It has been a common opinion that moles were
destructive to the crops; and in Europe, much pains have been taken to
destroy them. The mole-catcher--in general a quiet old man, who passes
his winter in making his traps, in the chimney-corner--comes forth, in
the spring, with his implements of destruction. His practised eye soon
discovers the tracks of the mole, from the mound which he throws up to
some neighboring bank, or from one mound to another. It is in this
track, or run, that he sets his trap, a few inches below the surface of
the ground. As the mole passes through this little engine of his ruin,
he disturbs a peg which holds down a strong hazel rod in a bent
position. The moment the peg is moved, the end of the rod which is held
down flies up, and with it comes up the poor mole, dragged out of the
earth which he has so ingeniously excavated, to be gibbeted, without a
chance of escape.

There was a Frenchman, of the name of Le Court, who died a few years
since,--a man of great knowledge and perseverance, and who did not
think it beneath him to devote his whole attention to the observation
of the mole. He established a school for mole-catching; and taught many
what he had acquired by incessant perseverance--the art of tracing the
mole to his hiding-place in the ground, and cutting off his retreat.
The skill of this man once saved, as was supposed, a large and fertile
district of France from inundation by a canal, whose banks the moles
had undermined in every direction.

More recently, it has been doubted whether moles are really so
mischievous to the farmer as has been supposed. It is said that they
assist in draining the land, and thus prevent the foot-rot in sheep.
Mr. Hogg, the Ettrick shepherd, says, "If a hundred men and horses were
employed on a common-sized pasture-farm--say from 1500 to 2000
acres--in raising and draining manure for a top-dressing to the land,
they would not do it so effectually, so equally, and so neatly, as the
natural number of moles on the farm would do for themselves."

Moles are said to be very ferocious animals; and, as an evidence of
this, we are told that a mole, a toad, and a viper, were enclosed in a
glass case; the mole despatched the other two, and devoured a great
part of both of them.


THE BEAR.

Of this animal there are many species; among which, the white bear of
the polar regions, and the grisly bear of the eastern slope of the
Rocky Mountains, are the largest and most formidable. The brown bear is
common to both continents. The most remarkable of the other species are
the Bornean, spectacled, large-lipped, Thibetian, and Malayan.

The BROWN or BLACK BEAR.--_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--This species,
like the rest of the family, is a solitary animal; for he only remains
associated with his mate for a short period, and then retires to his
winter retreat, which is usually in the hole of a rock, the cavity of a
tree, or a pit in the earth, which the animal frequently digs for
himself. He sometimes constructs a kind of hut, composed of the
branches of trees, which he lines with moss. In these situations he
continues, for the most part, in a lethargic state, taking no food, but
subsisting entirely on the absorption of the fat which he has
accumulated in the course of the summer.

The modes that are adopted, by the inhabitants of different countries,
for taking or destroying bears, are various. Of these, the following
appear to be the most remarkable: In consequence of the well-known
partiality of these animals for honey, the Russians sometimes fix to
those trees where bees are hived a heavy log of wood, at the end of a
long string. When the unwieldy creature climbs up, to get at the hive,
he finds himself interrupted by the log; he pushes it aside, and
attempts to pass it; but, in returning, it hits him such a blow, that,
in a rage, he flings it from him with greater force, which makes it
return with increased violence; and he sometimes continues this, till
he is either killed, or falls from the tree.

In Lapland, hunting the bear is often undertaken by a single man, who,
having discovered the retreat of the animal, takes his dog along with
him, and advances towards the spot. The jaws are tied round with a
cord, to prevent his barking; and the man holds the other end of this
cord in his hand. As soon as the dog smells the bear, he begins to show
signs of uneasiness, and, by dragging at the cord, informs his master
that the object of his pursuit is at no great distance.

When the Laplander, by this means, discovers on which side the bear is
stationed, he advances in such a direction that the wind may blow from
the bear to him, and not the contrary; for otherwise, the animal would,
by his scent, be aware of his approach, though not able to see the
enemy, being blinded by sunshine. The olfactory organs of the bear are
exquisite. When the hunter has advanced to within gunshot of the bear,
he fires upon him; and this is very easily accomplished in autumn, as
he is then more fearless, and is constantly prowling about for berries
of different kinds, on which he feeds at this season of the year.
Should the man chance to miss his aim, the furious beast will directly
turn upon him in a rage, and the little Laplander is obliged to take to
his heels with all possible speed, leaving his knapsack behind him on
the spot. The bear, coming up to this, seizes upon it, biting and
tearing it into a thousand pieces. While he is thus venting his fury,
the Laplander, who is generally a good marksman, reloads his gun, and
usually destroys him at the second shot; if not, the bear in most cases
runs away.

Bear-baiting was a favorite amusement of our English ancestors. Sir
Thomas Pope entertained Queen Mary and the Princess Elizabeth, at
Hatfield, with a grand exhibition of a "bear-baiting, with which their
highnesses were right well content." Bear-baiting was part of the
amusement of Elizabeth, among "the princely pleasures of Kenilworth
Castle." Rowland White, speaking of the queen, then in her
sixty-seventh year, says,--"Her majesty is very well. This day she
appoints a Frenchman to do feats upon a rope, in the Conduit Court.
To-morrow she has commanded the bears, the bull, and the ape, to be
bayted, in the tilt-yard. Upon Wednesday, she will have solemn
dauncing." The office of chief master of the bear was held under the
crown, with a salary of 16d. _per diem_. Whenever the king chose to
entertain himself or his visitors with this sport, it was the duty of
the master to provide bears and dogs, and to superintend the baiting;
and he was invested with unlimited authority to issue commissions, and
to send his officers into every county in England, who were empowered
to seize and take away any bears, bulls, or dogs, that they thought
meet, for his majesty's service. The latest record, by which this
diversion was publicly authorized, is a grant to Sir Saunders Duncombe,
October 11, 1561, "for the sole practice and profit of the fighting and
combating of wild and domestic beasts, within the realm of England, for
the space of fourteen years." Occasional exhibitions of this kind were
continued till about the middle of the eighteenth century.

We are told, in Johnston's _Sketches of India_, that "bears will often
continue on the road, in front of a palanquin, for a mile or two,
tumbling, and playing all sorts of antics, as if they were taught to do
so. I believe it is their natural disposition; for they certainly are
the most amusing creatures imaginable, in a wild state. It is no wonder
they are led about with monkeys, to amuse mankind. It is astonishing,
as well as ludicrous, to see them climb rocks, and tumble, or rather
roll, down precipices. If they are attacked by a person on horseback,
they stand erect on their hind legs, showing a fine set of white teeth,
and make a crackling kind of noise. If the horse comes near them, they
try to catch him by the legs; and, if they miss him, they tumble over
and over several times. They are easily speared by a person mounted on
horseback, that is bold enough to go near them."

Bears ascend trees with great facility. Of their fondness for climbing,
we have the following curious instance: In the end of June, 1825, a
tame bear took a notion of climbing up the scaffolding placed round a
brick stalk, erecting by Mr. G. Johnstone, at St. Rollox. He began to
ascend very steadily, cautiously examining, as he went along, the
various joists, to see if they were secure. He at length, to the
infinite amusement and astonishment of the workmen, reached the summit
of the scaffolding, one hundred and twenty feet high. Bruin had no
sooner attained the object of his wishes, than his physiognomy
exhibited great self-gratulation; and he looked about him with much
complacency, and inspected the building operations going on. The
workmen were much amused with their novel visitor, and every mark of
civility and attention was shown him; which he very condescendingly
returned, by good-humoredly presenting them with a shake of his paw. A
lime bucket was now hoisted, in order to lower him down; and the
workmen, with all due courtesy, were going to assist him into it; but
he declined their attentions, and preferred returning in the manner he
had gone up. He afterwards repeated his adventurous visit.

"Bears," says Mr. Lloyd, "are not unfrequently domesticated in
Wermeland. I heard of one that was so tame, that his master, a peasant,
used occasionally to cause him to stand at the back of his sledge when
on a journey; but the fellow kept so good a balance, that it was next
to impossible to upset him. When the vehicle went on one side, bruin
threw his weight the other way, and _vice versa_. One day, however, the
peasant amused himself by driving over the very worst ground he could
find, with the intention, if possible, of throwing the bear off his
equilibrium, by which, at last, the animal got so irritated, that he
fetched his master, who was in advance of him, a tremendous thwack on
the shoulders with his paw. This frightened the man so much, that he
caused the beast to be killed immediately."

Of the ferocity of the bear there are many instances on record. A brown
bear, which was presented to his late majesty, George III., while
Prince of Wales, was kept in the Tower. By the carelessness of the
servant, the door of the den was left open; and the keeper's wife
happening to go across the court at the same time, the animal flew out,
seized the woman, threw her down, and fastened upon her neck, which he
bit; and without offering any further violence, lay upon her, sucking
the blood out of the wound. Resistance was in vain, as it only served
to irritate the brute; and she must inevitably have perished, had not
her husband luckily discovered her situation. By a sudden blow, he
obliged the bear to quit his hold, and retire to his den, which he did
with great reluctance, and not without making a second attempt to come
at the woman, who was almost dead, through fear and loss of blood. It
is somewhat remarkable, that, whenever he happened to see her
afterwards, he growled, and made most violent struggles to get at her.
The prince, upon hearing of the circumstance, ordered the bear to be
killed.

But the bear is also capable of generous attachment. Leopold, Duke of
Lorraine, had a bear called Marco, of the sagacity and sensibility of
which we have the following remarkable instance: During the winter of
1709, a Savoyard boy, ready to perish with cold in a barn, in which he
had been put by a good woman, with some more of his companions, thought
proper to enter Marco's hut, without reflecting on the danger which he
ran in exposing himself to the mercy of the animal which occupied it.
Marco, however, instead of doing any injury to the child, took him
between his paws, and warmed him by pressing him to his breast, until
next morning, when he suffered him to depart, to ramble about the city.
The young Savoyard returned in the evening to the hut, and was received
with the same affection. For several days he had no other retreat; and
it added not a little to his joy, to perceive that the bear regularly
reserved part of his food for him. A number of days passed in this
manner without the servants' knowing any thing of the circumstance. At
length, when one of them came to bring the bear its supper, rather
later than ordinary, he was astonished to see the animal roll his eyes
in a furious manner, and seeming as if he wished him to make as little
noise as possible, for fear of awaking the child, whom he clasped to
his breast. The bear, though ravenous, did not appear the least moved
with the food which was placed before him. The report of this
extraordinary circumstance was soon spread at court, and reached the
ears of Leopold, who, with part of his courtiers, was desirous of being
satisfied of the truth of Marco's generosity. Several of them passed
the night near his hut, and beheld, with astonishment, that the bear
never stirred as long as his guest showed an inclination to sleep. At
break of day, the child awoke, was very much ashamed to find himself
discovered, and, fearing that he would be punished for his temerity,
begged pardon. The bear, however, caressed him, and endeavored to
prevail on him to eat what had been brought to him the evening before,
which he did at the request of the spectators, who afterwards conducted
him to the prince. Having learned the whole history of this singular
alliance, and the time which it had continued, Leopold ordered care to
be taken of the little Savoyard, who, doubtless, would have soon made
his fortune, had he not died a short time after.

Munster relates the following story of a man being strangely relieved
from a perilous situation: A countryman in Muscovy, in seeking for
honey in the woods, mounted a stupendous tree, which was hollow in the
centre of its trunk; and, discovering that it contained a large
quantity of comb, descended into the hollow, where he stuck fast in the
honey, which had been accumulated there to a great depth; and every
effort on his part to extricate himself proved abortive. So remote was
this tree, that it was impossible his voice could be heard. After
remaining in this situation for two days, and allaying his hunger with
the honey, all hope of being extricated was abandoned, and he gave
himself up to despair. At last a bear, who, like himself, had come in
search of honey, mounted the tree, and descended the hollow cleft,
"stern forward." The man was at first alarmed, but mustered courage to
seize the bear with all the firmness he could; upon which the animal
took fright, made a speedy retreat, and dragged the peasant after it.
When fairly out of the recess, he quitted his hold, and the bear made
the best of its way to the ground, and escaped.

It would appear that, in the remote regions of the United States, the
common black bear is occasionally found of a cinnamon color, and
sometimes even white. Tanner gives us the following account: "Shortly
after this, I killed an old she-bear, which was perfectly white. She
had four cubs; one white, with red eyes and red nails, like herself;
one red, and two black. In size, and other respects, she was the same
as the common black bear; but she had nothing black about her but the
skin of her lips. The fur of this kind is very fine, but not so highly
valued by the traders as the red. The old one was very tame, and I shot
her without difficulty; two of the young ones I shot in the hole, and
two escaped into a tree.

"I had but just shot them when there came along three men, attracted,
probably, by the sound of my gun. As these men were very hungry, I took
them home with me, fed them, and gave them each a piece of meat, to
carry home. Next day, I chased another bear into a low poplar-tree; but
my gun being a poor one, I could not shoot him.

"A few days after, as I was hunting, I started, at the same moment, an
elk and three young bears; the latter ran into a tree. I shot at the
young bears, and two of them fell. As I thought one or both must only
be wounded, I sprang towards the root of the tree, but had scarcely
reached it when I saw the old she-bear coming in another direction. She
caught up the cub which had fallen near her, and, raising it with her
paws, while she stood on her hind feet, holding it as a woman holds a
child, she looked at it for a moment, smelled the ball-hole, which was
in its belly, and perceiving it was dead, dashed it down, and came
directly towards me, gnashing her teeth, and walking so erect that her
head stood as high as mine. All this was so sudden, that I scarce
reloaded my gun, having only time to raise it, and fire, as she came
within reach of the muzzle. I was now made to feel the necessity of a
lesson the Indians had taught me, and which I very rarely
neglected--that is, to think of nothing else before loading it again."

Some years ago, a boy, of New Hampshire, found a very young cub, near
Lake Winnipeg, and carried it home with him. It was fed and brought up
about the house of the boy's father, and became as tame as a dog.

Every day its youthful captor had to go to school at some distance,
and, by degrees, the bear became his daily companion. At first, the
other scholars were shy of the creature's acquaintance; but, ere long,
it became their regular playfellow, and they delighted in sharing with
it the little store of provisions which they brought, for their
sustenance, in small bags. After two years of civilization, however,
the bear wandered to the woods, and did not return. Search was made for
him, but in vain.

Four succeeding years passed away, and, in the interval, changes had
occurred in the school alluded to. An old dame had succeeded to the
ancient master, and a new generation of pupils had taken the place of
the former ones. One very cold, winter day, while the schoolmistress
was busy with her humble lessons, a boy chanced to leave the door half
way open, on his entrance, and, suddenly, a large bear walked in.

The consternation of the old lady, and her boys and girls, was
unspeakable. Both schoolmistress and pupils would fain have been
abroad; but the bear was in the path, and all that could be done was to
fly off, as far as possible, behind the tables and benches. But the
bear troubled nobody. He walked quietly up to the fireplace, and warmed
himself, exhibiting much satisfaction in his countenance during the
process.

He remained thus about a quarter of an hour, and then walked up to the
wall where the provender bags and baskets of the pupils were suspended.
Standing on his hind feet, he took hold of these successively, put his
paws into them, and made free with the bread, fruit, and other
eatables, therein contained. He next tried the schoolmistress's desk,
where some little provisions usually were; but finding it firmly shut,
he went up again to the fire, and, after a few minutes' stay before it,
he walked out by the way he came in.

As soon as the schoolmistress and her pupils had courage to move, the
alarm was given to the neighbors. Several young men immediately started
after the bear, and, as its track was perfectly visible upon the snow,
they soon came up with it, and killed it. Then it was that, by certain
marks upon its skin, some of the pursuers recognized, in the poor bear,
no enemy, but an old friend of their own recent school days. Great
regret was felt at the loss of the creature. It was like killing a
human friend rather than a wild animal.

Landor furnishes us with the following account: A man in Sweden set off
one morning to shoot the cock of the woods. This bird is so extremely
shy, that he may rarely be met with, except in the pairing season,
when, every morning, he renews his song. He usually commences just
before sunrise, beginning in a loud strain, which gradually sinks into
a low key, until he is quite entranced with his own melody; he then
droops his wings to the earth, and runs to the distance of several
feet, calling, _Cluck, cluck, cluck_! during which time, he is said to
be incapable of seeing, so wrapped up is he in his own contemplations,
and may be caught even with the hand by those who are near enough, as
the fit lasts only a few moments. If unready, wait for the next
occasion; for, should he advance a step, except when the bird is thus
insensible, he will certainly be overheard, and the victim escape.

The man I began to speak of, being, early one morning, in pursuit of
this bird, heard his song at a short distance, and, as soon as the
_clucking_ commenced, of course advanced as rapidly as he could, and
then remained motionless, till these particular notes were again
sounded. It was quite dusk, the sun not having yet risen; but the song
seemed to come from an open space in the forest, from which the sun was
just emerging. He could not see many yards before him, and only
followed the direction of the sound. It so happened that, from another
point, but at no great distance, a bear was advancing on the bird, just
in the manner of, and with the same steps as the man.

The hunter, whilst standing motionless, thought he perceived a dark
object on one side of him; but it did not much engage his attention; at
the usual note, he moved on toward the game, but was surprised to see
that the black object had also advanced in an equal degree, and now
stood on a line with him. Still he was so eager after the bird, that he
could think of nothing else, and approached close to his prey before he
perceived that a large bear stood within a few feet of him; in fact,
just as they were about to spring on the bird, they caught sight of one
another, and each thought proper to slink back. After having retreated
a short distance, the man began to think it would be rather inglorious
to yield the prize without a struggle; and there being now more light,
he returned to the spot, when it appeared that the bear had also taken
the same resolution, and was actually advancing over the same open
space I have mentioned, growling, and tearing up the grass with her
feet. Though the man had only shot in his gun, he fired without
hesitation, and immediately took to his heels and fled, conceiving the
bear to be close in his rear, and returned not to pause till he gained
his own habitation. Having armed himself anew, and taken a companion
with him, he again repaired to the spot, where he found the bear lying
dead on the ground, some of the shots having entered her heart.

The American black bear lives a solitary life in forests and
uncultivated deserts, and subsists on fruits, and on the young shoots
and roots of vegetables. Of honey he is exceedingly fond, and, as he is
a most expert climber, he scales the loftiest trees in search of it.
Fish, too, he delights in, and is often found in quest of them, on the
borders of lakes and on the sea-shore. When these resources fail, he
will attack small quadrupeds, and even animals of some magnitude. As,
indeed, is usual in such cases, the love of flesh, in him, grows with
the use of it.

As the fur is of some value, the Indians are assiduous in the chase of
the creature which produces it. "About the end of December, from the
abundance of fruits they find in Louisiana and the neighboring
countries, the bears become so fat and lazy that they can scarcely run.
At this time they are hunted by the Indians. The nature of the chase is
generally this: the bear chiefly adopts, for his retreat, the hollow
trunk of an old cypress-tree, which he climbs, and then descends into
the cavity from above. The hunter, whose business it is to watch him
into this retreat, climbs a neighboring tree, and seats himself
opposite to the hole. In one hand he holds his gun, and in the other a
torch, which he darts into the cavity. Frantic with rage and terror,
the bear makes a spring from his station; but the hunter seizes the
instant of his appearance, and shoots him.

"The pursuit of the bear is a matter of the first importance to some of
the Indian tribes, and is never undertaken without much ceremony. A
principal warrior gives a general invitation to all the hunters. This
is followed by a strict fast of eight days, in which they totally
abstain from food, but during which the day is passed in continual
song. This is done to invoke the spirits of the woods to direct the
hunters to the places where there are abundance of bears. They even cut
the flesh in divers parts of their bodies, to render the spirits more
propitious. They also address themselves to the manes of the beasts
slain in the preceding chases, and implore these to direct them, in
their dreams, to an abundance of game. The chief of the hunt now gives
a great feast, at which no one dares to appear without first bathing.
At this entertainment, contrary to their usual custom, they eat with
great moderation. The master of the feast touches nothing, but is
employed in relating to the guests ancient tales of feasts in former
chases; and fresh invocations to the manes of the deceased bears
conclude the whole.

"They then sally forth, equipped as if for war, and painted black. They
proceed on their way in a direct line, not allowing rivers, marshes, or
any other impediment, to stop their course, and driving before them all
the beasts they find. When they arrive at the hunting-ground, they
surround as large a space as they can, and then contract their circle,
searching, at the same time, every hollow tree, and every place capable
of being the retreat of a bear; and they continue the same practice
till the chase is expired.

"As soon as a bear is killed, a hunter puts into his mouth a lighted
pipe of tobacco, and, blowing into it, fills the throat with the smoke,
conjuring the spirit of the animal not to resent what they are about to
do to its body, or to render their future chases unsuccessful. As the
beast makes no reply, they cut out the string of the tongue, and throw
it into the fire. If it crackle and shrivel up, which it is almost sure
to do, they accept this as a good omen; if not, they consider that the
spirit of the beast is not appeased, and that the chase of the next
year will be unfortunate."

When our forefathers first settled in America, bears were common in all
parts of the country along the Atlantic. Many adventures with them took
place, some of which are recorded in the histories of the times. The
following is said to have occurred at a later period:--

Some years since, when the western part of New York was in a state of
nature, and wolves and bears were not afraid of being seen, some
enterprising pilgrim had erected, and put in operation, a sawmill, on
the banks of the Genesee. One day, as he was sitting on the log, eating
his bread and cheese, a large, black bear came from the woods towards
the mill. The man, leaving his luncheon on the log, made a spring, and
seated himself on a beam above; when the bear, mounting the log, sat
down with his rump towards the saw, which was in operation, and
commenced satisfying his appetite on the man's dinner. After a little
while, the saw progressed enough to interfere with the hair on bruin's
back, and he hitched along a little, and kept on eating. Again the saw
came up, and scratched a little flesh. The bear then whirled about,
and, throwing his paws around the saw, held on, till he was mangled
through and through, when he rolled off, fell through into the flood,
and bled to death.

The GRISLY BEAR.--This creature, which is peculiar to North America,
is, perhaps, the most formidable of the bruin family in magnitude and
ferocity. He averages twice the bulk of the black bear, to which,
however, he bears some resemblance in his slightly elevated forehead,
and narrow, flattened, elongated muzzle. His canine teeth are of great
size and power. The feet are enormously large--the breadth of the fore
foot exceeding nine inches, and the length of the hind foot, exclusive
of the talons, being eleven inches and three quarters, and its breadth
seven inches. The talons sometimes measure more than six inches. He is,
accordingly, admirably adapted for digging up the ground, but is unable
to climb trees, in which latter respect he differs wholly from most
other species. The color of his hair varies to almost an indefinite
extent, between all the intermediate shades of a light gray and a black
brown; the latter tinge, however, being that which predominates. It is
always in some degree grizzled, by intermixture of grayish hairs. The
hair itself is, in general, longer, finer, and more exuberant, than
that of the black bear.

The neighborhood of the Rocky Mountains is one of the principal haunts
of this animal. There, amidst wooded plains, and tangled copses of
bough and underwood, he reigns as much the monarch as the lion is of
the sandy wastes of Africa. Even the bison cannot withstand his
attacks. Such is his muscular strength, that he will drag the ponderous
carcass of the animal to a convenient spot, where he digs a pit for its
reception. The Indians regard him with the utmost terror. His extreme
tenacity of life renders him still more dangerous; for he can endure
repeated wounds which would be instantaneously mortal to other beasts,
and, in that state, can rapidly pursue his enemy; so that the hunter
who fails to shoot him through the brain is placed in a most perilous
situation.

One evening, the men in the hindmost of one of Lewis and Clark's canoes
perceived one of these bears lying in the open ground, about three
hundred paces from the river; and six of them, who were all good
hunters, went to attack him. Concealing themselves by a small eminence,
they were able to approach within forty paces unperceived; four of the
hunters now fired, and each lodged a ball in his body, two of which
passed directly through the lungs. The bear sprang up, and ran
furiously, with open mouth, upon them; two of the hunters, who had
reserved their fire, gave him two additional wounds, and one, breaking
his shoulder-blade, somewhat retarded his motions. Before they could
again load their guns, he came so close on them, that they were obliged
to run towards the river, and before they had gained it, the bear had
almost overtaken them. Two men jumped into the canoe; the other four
separated, and, concealing themselves among the willows, fired as fast
as they could load their pieces. Several times the bear was struck, but
each shot seemed only to direct his fury towards the hunters; at last
he pursued them so closely that they threw aside their guns and
pouches, and jumped from a perpendicular bank, twenty feet high, into
the river. The bear sprang after them, and was very near the hindmost
man, when one of the hunters on the shore shot him through the head,
and finally killed him. When they dragged him on shore, they found that
eight balls had passed through his body in different directions.

Richardson relates the following story of a grisly bear. A party of
voyagers, who had been employed all day in tracking a canoe up the
Saskatchewan, had seated themselves, in the twilight, by a fire, and
were busy in preparing their supper, when a large grisly bear sprang
over their canoe that was behind them, and, seizing one of the party by
the shoulder, carried him off. The rest fled in terror, with the
exception of a man named Bourasso, who, grasping his gun, followed the
bear as it was retreating leisurely with its prey. He called to his
unfortunate comrade that he was afraid of hitting him if he fired at
the bear; but the latter entreated him to fire immediately, as the
animal was squeezing him to death. On this he took a deliberate aim,
and discharged his piece into the body of the bear, which instantly
dropped its prey to pursue Bourasso. He escaped with difficulty, and
the bear retreated to a thicket, where it is supposed to have died. The
man who was rescued had his arm fractured, and was otherwise severely
bitten by the bear, but finally recovered.

The WHITE BEAR.--The polar bear is considerably larger than the brown
or black bear, and is covered with a long, thick fur, of a bright white
beneath and of a yellowish tinge above. Besides the difference in
external appearance, there is a remarkable distinction between the
brown and the polar bears; for the former prefers, as his abode, the
wooded summits of alpine regions, feeding principally on roots and
vegetables; while the latter fixes his residence on the sea-coast, or
on an iceberg, and seems to delight in the stormy and inhospitable
precincts of the arctic circle, where vegetation is scarcely known to
exist, feeding entirely on animal matter. But it cannot be regarded as
a predatory quadruped, for it seems to prefer dead to living animal
food, its principal subsistence being the floating carcasses of whales.
It also preys upon seals, which it catches with much keenness and
certainty, as they ascend to the surface of the ocean to breathe; and
sometimes fish are caught by them, when they enter shoals or gulfs.
They move with great dexterity in the water, and capture their prey
with apparent ease. It is only when these bears quit their winter
quarters, and especially when the female has to protect her young, that
they manifest great ferocity.

While the Carcass, one of the ships of Captain Phipps's voyage of
discovery to the north pole, was locked in the ice, early one morning
the man at the mast-head gave notice that three bears were making their
way very fast over the Frozen Ocean, and were directing their course
towards the ship. They had no doubt been invited by the scent of some
blubber of a sea-horse, which the crew had killed a few days before,
and which, having been set on fire, was burning on the ice at the time
of their approach. They proved to be a she-bear and her two cubs; but
the cubs were nearly as large as the dam. They ran eagerly to the fire,
and drew out from the flames part of the flesh of the sea-horse that
remained unconsumed, and ate it voraciously.

The crew of the ship threw great lumps of the flesh they had still left
upon the ice, which the old bear fetched away singly, laying every
piece before the cubs as she brought it, and, dividing it, gave each a
share, reserving but a small portion to herself. As she was fetching
away the last piece, they levelled their muskets at the cubs, and shot
them both dead, at the same time wounding the dam in her retreat, but
not mortally. It would have drawn tears of pity from any but the most
unfeeling, to have marked the affectionate concern expressed by this
poor animal, in the dying moments of her expiring young. Though she was
sorely wounded, and could but just crawl to the place where they lay,
she carried the lump of flesh she had just fetched away, as she had
done the others, tore it in pieces, and laid it down before them. When
she saw they refused to eat, she laid her paws first upon the one, then
upon the other, and endeavored to raise them up, making, at the same
time, the most pitiable moans.

Finding she could not stir them, she went off, and, when she had got to
some distance, looked back, and moaned; and that not availing to entice
them away, she returned, and, smelling round them, began to lick their
wounds. She went off a second time, as before, and having crawled a few
paces, looked again behind her, and for some time stood moaning. But
still her cubs not rising to follow, she returned to them anew, and,
with signs of inexpressible fondness, went round, pawing them
successively. Finding, at last, that they were cold and lifeless, she
raised her head towards the ship, and growled a curse upon the
destroyers, which they returned with a volley of musket-balls. She fell
between her cubs, and died licking their wounds.

The polar bears are remarkably sagacious, as the following instances
may prove. Those in Kamtschatka are said to have recourse to a singular
stratagem, in order to catch the _bareins_, which are much too swift
of foot for them. These animals keep together in large herds; they
frequent mostly the low grounds, and love to browse at the base of
rocks and precipices. The bear hunts them by scent, till he comes in
sight, when he advances warily, keeping above them, and concealing
himself among the rocks, as he makes his approach, till he gets
immediately over them, and near enough for his purpose. He then begins
to push down, with his paws, pieces of rock among the herd below. This
manoeuvre is not followed by any attempt to pursue, until he finds he
has maimed one of the flock, upon which a course immediately ensues,
that proves successful, or otherwise, according to the hurt the barein
has received.

The captain of a Greenland whaler, being anxious to procure a bear
without injuring the skin, made trial of a stratagem of laying the
noose of a rope in the snow, and placing a piece of kreng within it. A
bear, ranging the neighboring ice, was soon enticed to the spot by the
smell of burning meat. He perceived the bait, approached, and seized it
in his mouth; but his foot, at the same time, by a jerk of the rope,
being entangled in the noose, he pushed it off with his paw, and
deliberately retired. After having eaten the piece he had carried away
with him, he returned. The noose, with another piece of kreng, having
been replaced, he pushed the rope aside, and again walked triumphantly
off with the bait. A third time the noose was laid; but, excited to
caution by the evident observations of the bear, the sailors buried the
rope beneath the snow, and laid the bait in a deep hole dug in the
centre. The animal once more approached, and the sailors were assured
of their success. But bruin, more sagacious than they expected, after
snuffing about the place for a few moments, scraped the snow away with
his paw, threw the rope aside, and again escaped unhurt with his prize.

A Greenland bear, with two cubs under her protection, was pursued
across a field of ice by a party of armed sailors. At first, she seemed
to urge the young ones to an increase of speed, by running before them,
turning round, and manifesting, by a peculiar action and voice, her
anxiety for their progress; but, finding her pursuers gaining upon
them, she carried, or pushed, or pitched them alternately forward,
until she effected their escape. In throwing them before her, the
little creatures are said to have placed themselves across her path to
receive the impulse, and, when projected some yards in advance, they
ran onwards, until she overtook them, when they alternately adjusted
themselves for another throw.

In the month of June, 1812, a female bear, with two cubs, approached
near a whale ship, and was shot. The cubs, not attempting to escape,
were taken alive. These animals, though at first very unhappy, became,
at length, in some measure reconciled to their situation, and, being
tolerably tame, were allowed occasionally to go at large about the
deck. While the ship was moored to a floe, a few days after they were
taken, one of them, having a rope fastened round his neck, was thrown
overboard. It immediately swam to the ice, got upon it, and attempted
to escape. Finding itself, however, detained by the rope, it endeavored
to disengage itself in the following ingenious way: Near the edge of
the floe was a crack in the ice, of considerable length, but only
eighteen inches or two feet wide, and three or four feet deep. To this
spot the bear turned, and when, on crossing the chasm, the bight of the
rope fell into it, he placed himself across the opening; then,
suspending himself by his hind feet, with a leg on each side, he
dropped his head and most part of his body into the chasm, and, with a
foot applied to each side of the neck, attempted, for some minutes, to
push the rope over his head. Finding this scheme ineffectual, he
removed to the main ice, and, running with great impetuosity from the
ship, gave a remarkable pull on the rope; then, going backwards a few
steps, he repeated the jerk. At length, after repeated attempts to
escape this way, every failure of which he announced by a significant
growl, he yielded himself to hard necessity, and lay down on the ice in
angry and sullen silence.

Like the brown and black bear, polar bears are animals capable of great
fierceness. Brentz, in his voyage in search of the north-east passage
to China, had horrid proofs of their ferocity in the Island of Nova
Zembla, where they attacked his seamen, seizing them in their mouth,
carrying them off with the utmost ease, and devouring them even in
sight of their comrades.

About twenty years ago, the crew of a boat belonging to a ship in the
whale fishery, shot at a bear some little distance off, and wounded
him. The animal immediately set up a dreadful howl, and scampered along
the ice towards the boat. Before he reached it, he had received a
second wound. This increased his fury, and he presently plunged into
the water, and swam to the boat; and, in his attempt to board it, he
placed one of his fore paws upon the gunwale, and would have gained his
point, had not one of the sailors seized a hatchet and cut it off. Even
this had not the effect of damping his courage; for he followed the
boat till it reached the ship, from whence several shots were fired at
him, which hit, but did not mortally wound him: he approached the
vessel, and ascended the deck, where, from his dreadful fury, he spread
such consternation, that all the crew fled to the shrouds, and he was
in the act of pursuing them thither, when an effective shot laid him
dead on the deck.


THE RACCOON.

This animal is peculiar to America. He resembles the bear, but is much
smaller and more elegantly formed. He is an active and lively animal;
an excellent climber of trees, in which the sharpness of his claws
greatly aids him; and he will even venture to the extremity of slender
branches. He is a good-tempered animal, and, consequently, easily
tamed; but his habit of prying into every thing renders him rather
troublesome, for he is in constant motion, and examining every object
within his reach. He generally sits on his hinder parts when feeding,
conveying all his food to his mouth with his fore paws. He will eat
almost every kind of food, but is particularly fond of sweetmeats, and
will indulge in spirituous liquors even to drunkenness. He feeds
chiefly at night, in a wild state, and sleeps during the day.

Brickell gives an interesting account, in his "History of North
Carolina," of the cunning manifested by the raccoon in pursuit of its
prey. "It is fond of crabs, and, when in quest of them, will take its
station by a swamp, and hang its tail over into the water, which the
crabs mistake for food, and lay hold of it; as soon as the raccoon
feels them pinch, it pulls up its tail with a sudden jerk, and they
generally quit their hold upon being removed from the water. The
raccoon instantly seizes the crabs in its mouth, removes them to a
distance from the water, and greedily devours its prey. It is very
careful how it takes them up, which it always does from behind, holding
them transversely, in order to prevent their catching its mouth with
their nippers."

When enraged, or desirous of attacking a person, the raccoon advances
with arched back and bristling hair, and with its chin or under jaw
close to the ground, uttering gruff sounds of displeasure. If once
injured, it seldom forgives its enemy. On one occasion, a servant
struck a tame raccoon with a whip: in vain did he afterwards attempt a
reconciliation; neither eggs, nor food most coveted by the animal,
availed in pacifying it. At his approach, it flew into a sort of fury;
it darted at him with sparkling eyes, uttering loud cries.

Its accents of anger were very singular; sometimes one might fancy them
the whistling of the curlew, at others, the hoarse bark of an old dog.
If any one beat it, it opposed no resistance; it concealed its head and
its paws, like the hedgehog, by rolling itself into a ball. In this
position it would suffer death. When its chain broke, it would allow no
one to approach it, and it was with great difficulty refettered.


THE COATI.

This animal, which frequents the woods of South America, resembles the
raccoon, but is smaller. He is in the habit of rooting under trees, and
thus overturns many of them, even those of large size. The most curious
incident in his history, is that he eats his own tail! This is
explained by Godman as follows: "The extreme length of its tail, in
which the blood circulates but feebly, exposes it to the influence of
cold or frost; and the exceedingly tormenting irritation produced
thereby leads the animal to gnaw and scratch the tail, to relieve the
excessive itching. The disease spreads, and the anguish induces the
coati to gnaw more furiously, and eventually its life is destroyed by
the extension of the inflammation and irritability to the spine."


THE BADGER.

Of this animal there are two species, one European, the other American;
but they have a strong resemblance. It has short legs, and a long body;
lives in burrows by day, and goes forth at night to prey on roots,
snails, and worms. The American species seems to be more carnivorous
than his foreign relation: in this respect he has high example, for the
people of America eat more butcher's meat than those of Europe--for the
reason, however, that they are so fortunate as to be able to get it.

In Europe, the badger is hunted as a matter of sport, the chief
amusement being derived from the fierce resistance he makes to the
dogs. In South America, the creature is eaten, and badger hams are
deemed a delicacy. Catching this animal is a great source of interest
to the Indians. We are told that a "party of eight, in one of their
expeditions, will destroy two or three hundred badgers, and a quantity
of deer on their return home, besides guanas. These hunting parties are
so delightful, even to the women, that the hopes of being allowed to
accompany the men will make them behave well all the year. On these
excursions they live well, and seem more happy than during the rainy
season; in their way home, they travel day and night rapidly, in spite
of obstructions, carrying long poles between them, on which the animals
are slung--the boys carrying the skins and lard; the dogs too are well
fed during this period, and seem to return with regret. A cloud of
vultures generally hover over them, and are seen by their clans a day
or two before they arrive, who make every preparation to receive them;
their return is greeted like that of victors. The rainy nights are
passed in recounting their exploits one to another."

The habits of the badger are said to be "the most social of any
quadruped in the universe; it is not known to quarrel with any other
animal; even the fox, polecat, opossum, land crab, and snake, make it
resign its abode, although it is much stronger than any of them. It
also lives in the greatest harmony with its own species, subsisting
principally on nuts, roots, and vegetables; it is cleanly in its
habits, being observed to perform its ablutions while the dew is on the
ground."


THE GLUTTON.

This animal, which is called _wolverene_ in this country, and _carcajou_
by the Canadians, is about three feet long, and of a dark-brown color.
It is strong and courageous, and will even attack and destroy the fox
in its burrow. Its extraordinary voracity gives the impulse to all its
exertions. Incessantly in search of food, it kills animals larger and
stronger than itself, seizes the deer which the hunter has just shot,
plunders the baits on his traps, or the game these have taken. A proof
at once of the strength, the cunning, and the strong appetite, of the
glutton, was afforded by one, at Hudson's Bay, some years since, which
overset the greatest part of a pile of wood of great extent, which
contained a whole winter's firing; his object was to get at some
provisions that had been hidden there by the company's servants when
going to the factory to spend the Christmas holidays.

This animal had for many weeks been lurking about their tent, and had
committed many depredations on the game caught in their traps and
snares, as well as eaten many of the foxes that were killed by guns set
for the purpose; but he was too cunning to touch either gun or trap
himself. The people thought they had adopted the best method to secure
their provisions, by tying them in bundles, and laying them on the top
of wood piles. To their astonishment, when they returned, they found
the greatest part of the pile thrown down, notwithstanding some of the
trees with which it was constructed were as much as two men could
carry. The wood was very much scattered about; and it was supposed
that, in the animal's attempting to carry off the booty, some of the
small parcels of provisions had fallen down into the heart of the pile,
and sooner than lose half his prize, he was at the trouble of pulling
away the wood. The bags of flour, oatmeal, and peas, though of no use
to him, he tore all to pieces, and scattered the contents about on the
snow; but every bit of animal food, consisting of beef, pork, bacon,
venison, salted geese, and partridges, in considerable quantities, he
carried away.

When attacked by other animals, the glutton fights desperately, and
three stout dogs are scarcely its match. A man who had tamed one of
them threw it one day into the water, and set a couple of dogs upon it,
when it immediately seized one of them by the head, and held it under
water till it was drowned.


THE WEASEL.

The weasel stands as the type of a large number of animals, such as the
marten, sable, polecat, otter, skunk, &c.; all being characterized by a
long body, short legs, and considerable energy of disposition. Some of
the species are celebrated for their abominable odor.

The weasel is an active, bloodthirsty little animal, not exceeding
seven inches in length from the nose to the tail. It is much about the
same size as a rat, though more slender; but it is a mortal enemy to
this animal, pursuing them to their holes, and killing them in great
numbers. It is also often fatal to the hare, as it will either creep
upon it when at rest, or, lying unseen amidst the rubbish or furze,
will spring at its throat; where, as in the case of other animals which
it kills, it fixes its bite, and then sucks the blood till its victim
expires. It makes a hole in the ends of eggs, and sucks the
contents--differently from the rat, which breaks the shell to pieces.
It is a destructive enemy to pigeons, as it creeps into the holes of a
dove-cot in the evening, and surprises its prey while they are asleep;
and, from the peculiar construction of its body, there are few
situations it is incapable of reaching; for it can clamber up an almost
perpendicular wall. When it sees a man, it endeavors as quickly as
possible to get out of the way, and hide itself amidst the grass or
loose stones; but if trodden on, or seized, it will turn and bite, like
a serpent. An ordinary dog does not wish to attack it, for it instantly
fastens itself on his lips.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--Weasels seem to unite, in many cases, for
mutual defence, or the attack of man. In January, 1818, a laborer in
the parish of Glencairn, Dumfriesshire, was suddenly attacked by six
weasels, which rushed upon him from an old dike in the field where he
was at work. The man, alarmed at such a furious onset, instantly betook
himself to flight; but he soon found he was closely pursued. Although
he had about him a large horsewhip, with which he endeavored, by
several back-handed strokes, to stop them, yet, so eager was the
pursuit of the weasels, that he was on the point of being seized by the
throat, when he luckily noticed, at some distance, the fallen branch of
a tree, which he made for, and, hastily snatching it up, manfully
rallied upon his enemies, and had such success, that he killed three of
them, and put the remaining three to flight.

A similar case occurred some years ago at Gilmerton, near Edinburgh,
when a gentleman, observing a person leaping about in an extraordinary
manner, made up to him, and found him beset, and dreadfully bitten, by
about fifteen weasels, which continued their attack. Being both strong
persons, they succeeded in killing a number, and the rest escaped by
flying into the fissures of a neighboring rock. The account the person
gave of the commencement of the affray was, that, walking through the
park, he ran at a weasel which he saw, and made several attempts to
strike it, remaining between it and the rock to which its retreat lay.
The animal, being thus circumstanced, squeaked aloud, when an
instantaneous sortie was made by the colony, and an attack commenced.

The weasel is exceedingly difficult to tame. When kept in a cage, it
seems in a perpetual state of agitation, is terrified at the sight of
all who approach to look at it, and generally endeavors to hide itself
behind the straw, or other substances, which may be at the bottom of
its cage. Yet instances are not wanting to prove that the weasel may be
brought into complete subjection. Mademoiselle de Laistre, in a letter
on this subject, gives a very pleasing account of the education and
manners of a weasel which she took under her protection, and which
frequently ate from her hand, seemingly more delighted with this manner
of feeding than any other. "If I pour," says this lady, "some milk into
my hand, it will drink a good deal; but if I do not pay it this
compliment, it will scarcely take a drop. When satisfied, it generally
goes to sleep. My chamber is the place of its residence; and I have
found a method of dispelling its strong smell by perfumes. By day it
sleeps in a quilt, into which it gets by an unsewn place which it has
discovered on the edge; during the night, it is kept in a wired box or
cage, which it always enters with reluctance, and leaves with pleasure.
If it be set at liberty before my time of rising, after a thousand
little playful tricks, it gets into my bed, and goes to sleep on my
hand or on my bosom.

"If I am up first, it spends a full half hour in caressing me; playing
with my fingers like a little dog, jumping on my head and on my neck,
and running round on my arms and body with a lightness and elegance
which I never found in any other animal. If I present my hands at the
distance of three feet, it jumps into them without ever missing. It
shows a great deal of address and cunning in order to compass its ends,
and seems to disobey certain prohibitions merely through caprice.
During all its actions it seems solicitous to divert, and to be
noticed; looking, at every jump, and at every turn, to see whether it
be observed or not. If no notice be taken of its gambols, it ceases
them immediately, and betakes itself to sleep; and when awakened from
the soundest sleep, it instantly resumes its gayety, and frolics about
in as sprightly a manner as before. It never shows any ill-humor,
unless when confined, or teased too much; in which case it expresses
its displeasure by a sort of murmur very different from that which it
utters when pleased. In the midst of twenty people, this little animal
distinguishes my voice, seeks me out, and springs over every body to
come to me. His play with me is the most lovely and caressing; with his
two little paws he pats me on the chin, with an air and manner
expressive of delight. This, and a thousand other preferences, show
that his attachment is real.

"When he sees me dressed to go out, he will not leave me, and it is not
without some trouble that I can disengage myself from him. He then
hides himself behind a cabinet near the door, and jumps upon me, as I
pass, with so much celerity, that I often can scarcely perceive him. He
seems to resemble a squirrel in vivacity, agility, voice, and his
manner of murmuring. During the summer he squeaks and runs all the
night long; and since the commencement of the cold weather, I have not
observed this. Sometimes, when the sun shines while he is playing on
the bed, he turns and tumbles about, and murmurs for a while.

"From his delight in drinking milk out of my hand, into which I pour a
very little at a time, and his custom of sipping the little drops and
edges of the fluid, it seems probable that he drinks dew in the same
manner. He very seldom drinks water, and then only for the want of
milk; and with great caution, seeming only to refresh his tongue once
or twice, and to be even afraid of that fluid. During the hot weather,
it rained a good deal. I presented to him some rain water in a dish,
and endeavored to make him go into it, but could not succeed. I then
wetted a piece of linen cloth in it, and put it near him, when he
rolled upon it with extreme delight. One singularity in this charming
animal is his curiosity; it being impossible to open a drawer or box,
or even to look at a paper, but it will examine it also. If he gets
into any place where I am afraid to let him stay, I take a paper or a
book, and look attentively at it, when he immediately runs upon my
hand, and surveys, with an inquisitive air, whatever I happen to hold.
I must further observe, that he plays with a young cat and dog, both of
some size; getting about their necks and paws without their doing him
the least harm."

The following story regarding the weasel is told in Selkirkshire: "A
group of haymakers, while busy at their work on Chapelhope meadow, at
the upper end of St. Mary's Loch,--or rather of the Loch of the Lowes,
which is separated from it by a narrow neck of land,--saw an eagle
rising above the steep mountains that enclose the narrow valley. The
eagle himself was, indeed, no unusual sight; but there is something so
imposing and majestic in the flight of this noble bird, while he soars
upwards in spiral circles, that it fascinates the attention of most
people. But the spectators were soon aware of something peculiar in the
flight of the bird they were observing. He used his wings violently;
and the strokes were often repeated, as if he had been alarmed and
hurried by unusual agitation; and they noticed, at the same time, that
he wheeled in circles that seemed constantly decreasing, while his
ascent was proportionally rapid. The now idle haymakers drew together
in close consultation on the singular case, and continued to keep their
eyes on the seemingly distressed eagle, until he was nearly out of
sight, rising still higher and higher into the air. In a short while,
however, they were all convinced that he was again seeking the earth,
evidently not, as he ascended, in spiral curves; it was like something
falling, and with great rapidity. But, as he approached the ground,
they clearly saw he was tumbling in his fall like a shot bird; the
convulsive fluttering of his powerful wings stopping the descent but
very little, until he fell at a small distance from the men and boys of
the party, who had naturally run forward, highly excited by the strange
occurrence. A large black-tailed weasel or stoat ran from the body as
they came near; turned with the _nonchalance_ and impudence of the
tribe; stood up upon its hind legs; crossed its fore paws over its
nose, and surveyed its enemies a moment or two,--as they often do when
no dog is near,--and bounded into a saugh bush. The king of the air was
dead; and, what was more surprising, he was covered with his own blood;
and, upon further examination, they found his throat cut, and the
weasel has been suspected as the regicide unto this day."


THE POLECAT.

This animal, which is confined to the eastern continent, is thrice the
size of the weasel, but its prey is nearly the same. It has as high a
reputation in Europe, for its offensive smell, as the skunk has here.
The following fact is recorded in Bewick's Quadrupeds: "During a severe
storm, one of these animals was traced in the snow from the side of a
rivulet to its hole at some distance from it. As it was observed to
have made frequent trips, and as other marks were to be seen in the
snow, which could not easily be accounted for, it was thought a matter
worthy of greater attention. Its hole was accordingly examined, the
polecat taken, and eleven fine eels were discovered to be the fruits of
its nocturnal exertions. The marks on the snow were found to have been
made by the motions of the eels while in the creature's mouth."


THE FERRET.

This animal is a native of Africa, and requires much care to preserve
it alive in cold countries. It is kept for the purpose of dislodging
rabbits from their warren, and has such a natural antipathy to these
animals, that, if a dead one be presented to a young ferret, though it
has never seen a rabbit before, it will eagerly seize it. Like the rest
of the species, it is remarkable for the pertinacity with which it
retains the bite which it has once taken. This circumstance is
illustrated by the following occurrence: A man, of the name of Isles, a
bargeman, finding himself much incommoded by the repeated mischief done
in his barge by rats, procured a ferret to destroy them. The ferret
remaining away a considerable time, he thought it was devouring some
rats that it had killed, and went to sleep, but was awakened early next
morning by the ferret, who was commencing an attack upon him. The
animal had seized him near his eyebrow; and the man, after endeavoring
in vain to shake him off, at length severed the body from the head with
a knife,--the latter still sticking so fast, as to be with difficulty
removed.


THE MINK.

This animal is found throughout a great extent of country, from
Carolina to Hudson's Bay, and in its habits and appearance resembles
the otter. The favorite haunts of this species are the banks of
streams, where it inhabits holes near the water. It is an excellent
swimmer and diver, and feeds on frogs and fish. It also commits great
depredations in the poultry-yard. When provoked, it ejects a fetid
liquor, which is exceedingly unpleasant.


THE MARTEN.

Of this animal there are two or three species, confined to the northern
regions of the eastern continent. Of all the weasel tribe it is the
most pleasing; all its motions show great grace as well as agility; and
there is scarcely an animal in our woods that will venture to oppose
it. Quadrupeds five times as large are easily vanquished; the hare, the
sheep, and even the wild-cat itself, is not a match for it. We are told
of a marten which had been tamed, and was extremely pretty and playful
in its manners. It went among the houses of the neighborhood, and
always returned home when hungry. It was extremely fond of a dog that
had been bred with it, and used to play with it as cats are seen to
play, lying on its back, and biting without anger or injury.


THE SABLE.

This animal, as well as several others of the tribe, is greatly valued
for its fur. It resembles the marten, and is found in the northern
parts of both continents. The enterprise, perseverance, and hardships
of the hunters, in America as well as Siberia, in pursuit of this
creature, are almost incredible. In the latter country, the hunting of
the sable chiefly falls to the lot of condemned criminals, who are sent
from Russia into these wild and extensive forests, that for the
greatest part of the year are covered with snow; and in this instance,
as in many others, the luxuries and ornaments of the vain are wrought
out of the dangers and miseries of the wretched. These are obliged to
furnish a certain number of skins every year, and are punished if the
proper quantity is not provided.

The sable is also killed by the Russian soldiers, who are sent into
those parts for the purpose. They are taxed a certain number of skins
yearly, and are obliged to shoot with only a single ball, to avoid
spoiling the skin, or else with cross-bows and blunt arrows. As an
encouragement to the hunters, they are allowed to share among
themselves the surplus of those skins which they thus procure; and
this, in the process of six or seven years, amounts to a considerable
sum. A colonel, during his seven years' stay, gains about four thousand
crowns for his share, and the common men earn six or seven hundred
each.


THE SKUNK.

Of this animal there are several varieties upon the American continent,
to which it is confined; though we have but one in this quarter of the
United States. This is of the size of a cat, and striped with black and
white. Its celebrity depends exclusively upon its peculiar mode of
defence--that of discharging upon its foe a liquid of the most
revolting and intolerable odor, and of such vigor as to fill the air
for half a mile around.

Some years ago, a Frenchman, who had settled at Hartford, Connecticut,
was going home from Wethersfield, a place renowned for raising
_onions_. It was evening, and in the twilight the man saw a little
animal crossing the path before him. Not knowing or suspecting its
character, he darted upon it, caught it, and put it in his pocket. When
he reached home, he took it out, and a general exclamation of
astonishment burst from the household, at the extraordinary flavor of
the little beast. "What is it?" "What can it be?"--was the general
inquiry. "I cannot say," said the Frenchman; "but I suppose it must be
a _Wethersfield_ kitten!"

On a certain occasion, Dr. B----, an eminent divine, was walking at
evening in a by-way, when he saw a small animal trotting along before
him. He easily guessed its true character, and having a volume of
Rees's Cyclopedia under his arm, he hurled it with all his might at the
suspicious quadruped. It took effect, but the animal retorted by
discharging, both upon the Cyclopedia and the D.D., a shaft from his
abominable quiver. It seems that the event made an indelible impression
both upon the garments and the memory of the divine; the former he
buried; and when, some years after, he was advised to write a book
against a rival sect, he replied, "No, no!--I once threw a quarto at a
skunk, and got the worst of it. I shall not repeat such folly."

"In the year 1749," says Kahn, "one of these animals came near the farm
where I lived. It was in winter time, during the night; and the dogs
that were on watch pursued it for some time, until it discharged
against them. Although I was in a bed at some distance from the scene
of action, I thought I should have been suffocated, and the cows and
oxen, by their lowing, showed how much they were affected by the
stench.

"About the end of the same year, another of these animals crept into
our cellar, but did not exhale the smallest scent when undisturbed. A
foolish woman, however, who perceived it one night by the shining of
its eyes, killed it, and at that moment the fetid odor began to spread.
The cellar was filled with it to such a degree that the woman kept her
bed for several days; and all the bread, meat, and other provisions
that were kept there, were so infected, that they were obliged to be
thrown out of doors."


THE OTTER.

The otter is a native of the greater part of Europe and America. Its
principal food being fish, it makes its habitation on the banks of
rivers, where it burrows to some depth.

_Anecdotes._--The females produce from four to five at a birth. Their
parental affection is so powerful, that they will frequently suffer
themselves to be killed rather than quit their progeny; and this has
frequently been the occasion of their losing their lives, when they
might, otherwise, have escaped. Professor Steller says, "Often have I
spared the lives of the female otters, whose young ones I took away.
They expressed their sorrow by crying like human beings, and followed
me as I was carrying off their young ones, which called to them for
aid, with a tone of voice which very much resembled the wailing of
children. When I sat down in the snow, they came quite close to me, and
attempted to carry off their young. On one occasion, when I had
deprived an otter of her progeny, I returned to the place eight days
after, and found the female sitting by the river, listless and
desponding; she suffered me to kill her on the spot without making any
attempt to escape. On skinning her, I found she was quite wasted away,
from sorrow for the loss of her young. Another time I saw, at some
distance from me, an old female otter sleeping by the side of a young
one, about a year old. As soon as the mother perceived us, she awoke
the young one, and enticed him to betake himself to the river; but, as
he did not take the hint, and seemed inclined to prolong his sleep, she
took him up in her fore paws and plunged him into the water."

The otter is naturally ferocious; but when taken young, and properly
treated, it can be rendered tame, and taught to catch fish, and fetch
them to its master. James Campbell, near Inverness, procured a young
otter, which he brought up and domesticated. It would follow him
wherever he chose; and, if called on by its name, would immediately
obey. When apprehensive of danger from dogs, it sought the protection
of its master, and would endeavor to spring into his arms for greater
security. It was frequently employed in catching fish, and would
sometimes take eight or ten salmon in a day. If not prevented, it
always made an attempt to break the fish behind the anal fin, which is
next the tail; and, as soon as one was taken away, it always dived in
pursuit of more. It was equally dexterous at sea-fishing, and took
great numbers of young cod, and other fish, there. When tired, it would
refuse to fish any longer, and was then rewarded with as much as it
could devour. Having satisfied its appetite, it always coiled itself
round, and fell asleep; in which state it was generally carried home.

It appears that the otter, in its native haunts, is of a playful and
sportive humor. We are told that, on the banks of the northern rivers,
where they dwell unmolested, they may be sometimes seen sliding down
the soft, muddy banks into the water, like a parcel of boys coasting
upon the snow. They become quite animated with the sport, seeming to
emulate each other in the vigor and frolic of their performances.

The sea otter is a larger species, living in pairs along the northern
shores of the Pacific Ocean.


THE DOG.

The dog, in its wild state, differs little in its habits from those of
the same order of quadrupeds; it resembles the wolf rather than the
fox, hunts in troops, and, thus associated, attacks the most formidable
animals--wild boars, tigers, and even lions. They are said, however,
even while in this condition, to exhibit a disposition to yield to man;
and, if approached by him with gentleness, will submit to be caressed.
On the other hand, if dogs that have been once tamed are driven from
the haunts of men, and the protection to which they have been
accustomed, they readily become wild, and associate together in troops.
In Asia, there are multitudes of these animals around the towns, which
live in a half-wild state, calling no man master.

But when domesticated, the dog presents the appearance of the most
thorough submission to the will, and subservience to the use of man. If
we look at the individual, we perceive it attached to a person whom it
acknowledges as master, with whom it has formed a very humble alliance,
and whose interest it considers its own. It answers to its name, is
willing to follow its master wherever he goes, and exerts all its
energies in any service to which he may command it, and that without
any constraint except what arises from its own disposition. A more
perfect image of obedience and subservience cannot be conceived. If, on
the other hand, we survey the species, we find it in every variety of
size, and shape, and disposition, according to the various services of
which it is capable. The division of labor is almost as complete, among
the different species of the dog, as among men themselves. It, like its
masters, gives up the exercise of one faculty that it may bring another
to a greater perfection.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--The anecdotes which go to display the
intelligence and fidelity of dogs, are almost innumerable. Of these, we
can give only a few specimens. "My dog Sirrah," says the Ettrick
shepherd, "was, beyond all comparison, the best dog I ever saw. He was
of a surly and unsocial temper. Disdaining all flattery, he refused to
be caressed; but his attention to my commands and interests will never
again, perhaps, be equalled by any of the canine race. When I first saw
him, a drover was leading him in a rope. He was both lean and hungry,
and far from being a beautiful animal, for he was almost all black, and
had a grim face, striped with dark-brown. The man had bought him of a
boy, somewhere on the Border, for three shillings, and had fed him
very ill on his journey. I thought I discovered a sort of sullen
intelligence in his countenance, notwithstanding his dejected and
forlorn appearance. I gave the drover a guinea for him, and I believe
there never was a guinea so well laid out; at least, I am satisfied I
never laid one out to so good a purpose. He was scarcely a year old,
and knew so little of herding, that he had never turned a sheep in his
life; but as soon as he discovered that it was his duty to do so, and
that it obliged me, I can never forget with what anxiety and eagerness
he learned his different evolutions. He would try every way
deliberately, till he found out what I wanted him to do; and, when I
once made him understand a direction, he never forgot or mistook it
again. Well as I knew him, he often astonished me; for, when hard
pressed in accomplishing the task that he was put to, he had expedients
of the moment that bespoke a great share of the reasoning faculty."

Among other remarkable exploits of Sirrah, illustrative of his
sagacity, Mr. Hogg relates that, upon one occasion, about seven hundred
lambs, which were under his care at weaning time, broke up at midnight,
and scampered off, in three divisions, across the neighboring hills, in
spite of all that he and an assistant could do to keep them together.
The night was so dark that he could not see Sirrah; but the faithful
animal heard his master lament their absence in words which, of all
others, were sure to set him most on the alert; and, without more ado,
he silently set off in quest of the recreant flock. Meanwhile, the
shepherd and his companion did not fail to do all in their power to
recover their lost charge; they spent the whole night in scouring the
hills for miles round, but of neither the lambs nor Sirrah could they
obtain the slightest trace. It was the most extraordinary circumstance
that had ever occurred in the annals of pastoral life. They had nothing
to do, as day had dawned, but to return to their master, and inform him
that they had lost his whole flock of lambs, and knew not what was
become of one of them. "On our way home, however," says Mr. Hogg, "we
discovered a lot of lambs at the bottom of a deep ravine called the
Flesh Cleuch, and the indefatigable Sirrah standing in front of them,
looking round for some relief, but still true to his charge. The sun
was then up; and when we first came in view, we concluded that it was
one of the divisions, which Sirrah had been unable to manage until he
came to that commanding situation. But what was our astonishment when
we discovered that not one lamb of the whole flock was wanting! How he
had got all the divisions collected in the dark is beyond my
comprehension. The charge was left entirely to himself from midnight
until the rising sun; and if all the shepherds in the Forest had been
there to have assisted him, they could not have effected it with
greater propriety. All that I can further say is, that I never felt so
grateful to any creature under the sun, as I did to my honest Sirrah
that morning."

Sir Walter Scott has furnished an anecdote on this subject, concerning
a dog, which, though meritorious in himself, must ever deserve the
greatest share of fame and interest from the circumstance of having
belonged to such a master. "The wisest dog," says Sir Walter, "I ever
had, was what is called the bull-dog terrier. I taught him to
understand a great many words, insomuch that I am positive that the
communication betwixt the canine species and ourselves might be greatly
enlarged. Camp once bit the baker, who was bringing bread to the
family. I beat him, and explained the enormity of his offence; after
which, to the last moment of his life, he never heard the least
allusion to the story, in whatever voice or tone it was mentioned,
without getting up and retiring into the darkest corner of the room,
with great appearance of distress. Then, if you said, 'The baker was
well paid,' or 'The baker was not hurt after all,' Camp came forth from
his hiding-place, capered, barked, and rejoiced. When he was unable,
towards the end of his life, to attend me when on horseback, he used to
watch for my return, and the servant used to tell him 'his master was
coming down the hill, or through the moor;' and although he did not use
any gesture to explain his meaning, Camp was never known to mistake
him, but either went out at the front to go up the hill, or at the back
to get down to the moor-side. He certainly had a singular knowledge of
spoken language."

It has been made a question, whether the dog remembers his master after
a long period of separation. The voice of antiquity favors the
affirmative. Homer makes the dog of Ulysses to recognize him after many
years' absence, and describes Eumenes, the swineherd, as being thus led
to apprehend, in the person before him, the hero, of seeing whom he had
long despaired. Byron, on the other hand, was skeptical on this point.
Writing to a friend, who had requested the results of his experience on
the subject,--he states that, on seeing a large dog, which had belonged
to him, and had formerly been a favorite, chained at Newstead, the
animal sprang towards him, as he conceived, in joy--but he was glad to
make his escape from it, with the comparatively trivial injury of the
loss of the skirts of his coat. Perhaps this circumstance may have
suggested the following verses of the poet:--

    "And now I'm in the world alone,
      Upon the wide, wide sea;
    But why should I for others groan,
      When none will sigh for me?
    Perchance my dog will whine in vain,
      Till fed by stranger hands;
    But long ere I come back again,
      He'd tear me where he stands."

The affection of the dog for his master does not end with his life; and
innumerable are the anecdotes on record of dogs, which have continued
to pine after their master's death, or died immediately after. We shall
select but one or two well-authenticated instances, for they are all so
much alike, that it is unnecessary to produce many. It is said, in the
Life of Mary, Queen of Scots, lately published at Glasgow, that, after
her head was cut off, her little favorite lapdog, which had
affectionately followed her, and unobserved had nestled among her
clothes, now continued to caress her, and would not leave the body till
forced away, and then died two days afterwards.

Mr. Renton, of Lammerton, had a herdsman, who, pursuing a sheep that
had run down the steep bank of Blackadder Water, fell into the river
and was drowned. His dog, a common shepherd's dog, returned home next
morning, and led his wife to the spot, holding her by the apron. The
body was found. The dog followed it even to the grave, and died in a
few days.

A mastiff dog belonging to the Honorable Peter Bold, England, attended
his master in his chamber during the tedious sickness consequent on a
pulmonary consumption. After the gentleman expired, and his corpse had
been removed, the dog repeatedly entered the apartment, making a
mournful, whining noise; he continued his researches for several days
through all the rooms of the house, but in vain. He then retired to his
kennel, which he could not be induced to leave; refusing all manner of
sustenance, he soon died. Of this fact, and his previous affection, the
surgeon who attended his master was an eye-witness.

The regret of the dog for its master's death is not confined to
inactive sorrow; if his death has been caused by violence, it discovers
a singular and persevering hatred of the murderers, which in some cases
has led to their detection. The following instance is related in a
letter, written in 1764, by a gentleman at Dijon, in France, to his
friend in London: "Since my arrival here, a man has been broken on the
wheel, with no other proof to condemn him than that of a water-spaniel.
The circumstances attending it being so very singular and striking, I
beg leave to communicate them to you. A farmer, who had been to receive
a sum of money, was waylaid, robbed, and murdered, by two villains. The
farmer's dog returned with all speed to the house of the person who had
paid the money, and expressed such amazing anxiety that he would follow
him, pulling him several times by the sleeve and skirt of the coat,
that at length the gentleman yielded to his importunity. The dog led
him to the field, a little from the roadside, where the body lay. From
thence the gentleman went to a public house, in order to alarm the
country. The moment he entered, (as the two villains were there
drinking,) the dog seized the murderer by the throat, and the other
made his escape. This man lay in prison three months, during which time
they visited him once a week with the spaniel; and though they made him
change his clothes with other prisoners, and always stand in the midst
of a crowd, yet did the animal always find him out, and fly at him. On
the day of trial, when the prisoner was at the bar, the dog was let
loose in the court-house, and, in the midst of some hundreds, he found
him out, though dressed entirely in new clothes, and would have torn
him to pieces had he been allowed; in consequence of which he was
condemned, and at the place of execution he confessed the fact. Surely
so useful, so disinterestedly faithful an animal, should not be so
barbarously treated as I have often seen them, particularly in London."

Other cases might be produced, but we shall only present that of the
dog of Montargis, which has become familiar to the public by being made
the subject of a melodrame frequently acted at the present time. The
fame of this English blood-hound has been transmitted by a monument in
basso-relievo, which still remains in the chimney-piece of the grand
hall, at the Castle of Montargis, in France. The sculpture, which
represents a dog fighting with a champion, is explained by the
following narrative: Aubri de Mondidier, a gentleman of family and
fortune, travelling alone through the Forest of Bondy, was murdered,
and buried under a tree. His dog, a bloodhound, would not quit his
master's grave for several days; till at length, compelled by hunger,
he proceeded to the house of an intimate friend of the unfortunate
Aubri, at Paris, and, by his melancholy howling, seemed desirous of
expressing the loss sustained. He repeated his cries, ran to the door,
looked back to see if any one followed him, returned to his master's
friend, pulled him by the sleeve, and, with dumb eloquence, entreated
him to go with him. The singularity of all these actions of the dog,
added to the circumstance of his coming there without his master, whose
faithful companion he had always been, prompted the company to follow
the animal, who conducted them to a tree, where he renewed his howl,
scratching the earth with his feet, and significantly entreating them
to search the particular spot. Accordingly, on digging, the body of the
unhappy Aubri was found. Some time after, the dog accidentally met the
assassin, who is styled, by all the historians that relate this fact,
the Chevalier Macaire; when, instantly seizing him by the throat, he
was with great difficulty compelled to quit his victim. In short,
whenever the dog saw the chevalier, he continued to pursue and attack
him with equal fury.

Such obstinate violence in the animal, confined only to Macaire,
appeared very extraordinary--especially as several instances of
Macaire's envy and hatred to Aubri de Mondidier had been conspicuous.
Additional circumstances created suspicion, and at length the affair
reached the royal ear. The king, Louis VIII., accordingly sent for the
dog, which appeared extremely gentle till he perceived Macaire in the
midst of several noblemen, when he ran fiercely towards him, growling
at and attacking him, as usual. The king, struck with such a
combination of circumstantial evidence against Macaire, determined to
refer the decision to the chance of battle; in other words, he gave
orders for a combat between the chevalier and the dog. The lists were
appointed in the Isle of Notre Dame, then an unenclosed, uninhabited
place, and Macaire was allowed, for his weapon, a great cudgel. An
empty cask was given to the dog as a place of retreat, to enable him to
recover breath. Every thing being prepared, the dog no sooner found
himself at liberty, than he ran round his adversary, avoiding his
blows, and menacing him on every side, till his strength was exhausted;
then springing forward, he seized him by the throat, and threw him on
the ground. Macaire now confessed his guilt in presence of the king and
the whole court. In consequence of this, the chevalier, after a few
days, was convicted upon his own acknowledgment, and beheaded on a
scaffold in the Isle of Notre Dame.

The instances in which persons have been saved from drowning by the
Newfoundland dog, are innumerable. The following anecdote is the more
remarkable, as it does not appear that the affectionate animal was of
that species. A young man belonging to the city of Paris, desirous of
getting rid of his dog, took it along with him to the River Seine. He
hired a boat, and, rowing into the stream, threw the animal in. The
poor creature attempted to climb up the side of the boat, but his
master, whose intention was to drown him, constantly pushed him back
with the oar. In doing this, he fell himself into the water, and would
certainly have been drowned, had not the dog, as soon as he saw his
master struggling in the stream, suffered the boat to float away, and
held him above the water till assistance arrived, and his life was
saved.

Of the alertness of the dog in recovering the lost property of its
master, we shall furnish a striking instance. M. Dumont, a tradesman of
the Rue St. Denis, Paris, offered to lay a wager with a friend that, if
he were to hide a six-livre piece in the dust, his dog would discover
and bring it to him. The wager was accepted, and the piece of money
secreted, after being carefully marked. When they had proceeded some
distance from the spot, M. Dumont signified to his dog that he had lost
something, and ordered him to seek it. Caniche immediately turned back,
while his master and his companion pursued their walk to the Rue St.
Denis.

Meanwhile a traveller, who happened to be just then returning in a
small chaise from Vincennes, perceived the piece of money, which his
horse had kicked from its hiding-place; he alighted, took it up, and
drove to his inn in Rue Pont-aux-Choux, and Caniche had just reached
the spot in search of the lost piece when the stranger picked it up. He
followed the chaise, went into the inn, and stuck close to the
traveller. Having scented out the coin, which he had been ordered to
bring back, in the pocket of the latter, he leaped up incessantly at
and about him. The gentleman, supposing him to be some dog that had
been lost or left behind by his master, regarded his different
movements as marks of fondness; and as the animal was handsome, he
determined to keep him. He gave him a good supper, and, on retiring to
bed, took him with him to his chamber. No sooner had he pulled off his
breeches, than they were seized by the dog; the owner, conceiving he
wanted to play with them, took them away again. The animal began to
bark at the door, which the traveller opened, under the idea that he
wanted to go out. Caniche instantly snatched up the breeches, and away
he flew. The stranger posted after him with his night-cap on, and
nearly _sans culottes_.

Anxiety for the fate of a purse full of double Napoleons, of forty
francs each, which was in one of the pockets, gave redoubled velocity
to his steps. Caniche ran full speed to his master's house, where the
stranger arrived a moment afterwards, breathless and furious. He
accused the dog of robbing him. "Sir," said the master, "my dog is a
very faithful creature, and if he has run away with your breeches, it
is because you have in them money which does not belong to you." The
traveller became still more exasperated. "Compose yourself, sir,"
rejoined the other, smiling; "without doubt there is in your purse a
six-livre piece with such and such marks, which you picked up in the
Boulevard St. Antoine, and which I threw down there with a firm
conviction that my dog would bring it back again. This is the cause of
the robbery which he has committed upon you!" The stranger's rage now
yielded to astonishment; he delivered the six-livre piece to the owner,
and could not forbear caressing the dog which had given him so much
uneasiness and such an unpleasant chase.

A shepherd on the Grampian Mountains, having left his child at the foot
of the hill, was soon enveloped in mist; and, unable to return to the
precise place, he could not discover the child. In vain he searched for
it in the midst of the mist, not knowing whither he went; and when, at
length, the moon shone clearly, he found himself at his cottage, and
far from the hill. He searched in vain next day, with a band of
shepherds. On returning to his cottage, he found that the dog, on
receiving a piece of cake, had instantly gone off. He renewed the
search for several days, and still the dog had disappeared, during his
absence, taking with it a piece of cake. Struck with this circumstance,
he remained at home one day, and when the dog, as usual, departed with
his piece of cake, he resolved to follow him. The dog led the way to a
cataract at some distance from the spot where the shepherd had left his
child.

The banks of the waterfall almost joined at the top, yet, separated by
an abyss of immense depth, presented that abrupt appearance which so
often astonishes and appals the traveller amidst the Grampian
Mountains. Down one of these rugged and almost perpendicular descents
the dog began, without hesitation, to make his way, and at last
disappeared in a cave, the mouth of which was almost upon a level with
the torrent. The shepherd with difficulty followed; but, on entering
the cave, what were his emotions when he beheld his infant eating, with
much satisfaction, the cake which the dog had just brought him, while
the faithful animal stood by, eyeing his young charge with the utmost
complacence. From the situation in which the child was found, it
appears that he had wandered to the brink of the precipice, and either
fallen or scrambled down till he reached the cave, which the dread of
the torrent had afterwards prevented him from leaving. The dog, by
means of his scent, had traced him to the spot, and afterwards
prevented him from starving by giving up to him his own daily
allowance. He appears never to have quitted the child by night or day,
except when it was necessary to go for its food, and then he was always
seen running at full speed to and from the cottage.

The memory of the dog Gelert has been preserved by tradition, and
celebrated in poetry. In the neighborhood of a village at the foot of
Snowdon, a mountain in Wales, Llewellyn, son-in-law to King John, had a
residence. The king, it is said, had presented him with one of the
finest greyhounds in England, named Gelert. In the year 1205, Llewellyn
one day, on going out to hunt, called all his dogs together; but his
favorite greyhound was missing, and nowhere to be found. He blew his
horn as a signal for the chase, and still Gelert came not. Llewellyn
was much disconcerted at the heedlessness of his favorite, but at
length pursued the chase without him. For want of Gelert the sport was
limited; and, getting tired, he returned home at an early hour, when
the first object that presented itself to him at the castle gate was
Gelert, who bounded with the usual transport to meet his master, having
his lips besmeared with blood. Llewellyn gazed with surprise at the
unusual appearance of his dog.

On going into the apartment where he had left his infant son and heir
asleep, he found the bed-clothes all in confusion, the cover rent and
stained with blood. He called on his child, but no answer was made,
from which he hastily concluded that the dog must have devoured him;
and, giving vent to his rage, plunged his sword to the hilt in Gelert's
side. The noble animal fell at his feet, uttering a dying yell which
awoke the infant, who was sleeping beneath a mingled heap of the
bed-clothes, while beneath the bed lay a great wolf covered with gore,
whom the faithful and gallant hound had destroyed. Llewellyn, smitten
with sorrow and remorse for the rash and frantic deed which had
deprived him of so faithful an animal, caused an elegant marble
monument, with an appropriate inscription, to be erected over the spot
where Gelert was buried, to commemorate his fidelity and unhappy fate.
The place to this day is called Beth-Gelert, or the Grave of the
Greyhound.

    "Here never could the spearman pass,
      Or forester, unmoved;
    Here oft the tear-besprinkled grass
      Llewellyn's sorrow proved.
    And here he hung his horn and spear,
      And oft, as evening fell,
    In fancy's piercing sounds would hear
      Poor Gelert's dying yell."

The bull-dog would appear the least likely to combat with a heavy sea,
and yet the following circumstances are well authenticated: On board a
ship, which struck upon a rock near the shore, there were three dogs,
two of the Newfoundland variety, and one a small but firmly-built
English bull-dog. It was important to have a rope carried ashore, and
it was thought that one of the Newfoundland dogs might succeed; but he
was not able to struggle with the waves, and perished; and the other
Newfoundland dog, being thrown over with the rope, shared the same
fate. But the bull-dog, though not habituated to the water, swam
triumphantly to land, and thus saved the lives of the persons on board.
Among them was his master, a military officer, who still has the dog in
his possession.

Among the instances of sagacity, mingled with an affection for its
master, may be mentioned those cases in which the dog notices or
detects thefts, and restores lost or stolen articles to its master. An
acquaintance of Lord Fife's coachman had put a bridle belonging to the
earl in his pocket, and would have abstracted it, had he not been
stopped by a Highland cur, that observed him, barked at him, and
absolutely bit his leg. This was unusual conduct in the dog; but the
wonder of the servants ceased when they saw the end of the bridle
peeping out of the visitor's pocket; and it being delivered up, the dog
became quiet. It is well known that in London, the other year, a box,
properly directed, was sent to a merchant's shop to lie there all
night, and be shipped off with other goods next morning, and that a
dog, which accidentally came into the shop with a customer, by his
smelling it, and repeatedly barking in a peculiar way, led to the
discovery that the box contained not goods, but a rogue who intended to
admit his companions and plunder the shop in the night-time.

A man who frequented the _Pont Neuf_ in Paris, and whose business it
was to brush the boots of persons passing by, taught his dog, which was
a poodle, to roll himself in the mud, and then brush by gentlemen so as
to soil their boots. In this way, the animal largely contributed to
support the trade of his master.

There were two friends--one living in London, the other at Guildford.
These were on terms of the greatest intimacy, and for many years it had
been the custom of the London family to pass the Christmas with the one
at Guildford. Their usual practice was to arrive to dinner the day
before, and they were always accompanied by a large spaniel, who was as
great a favorite of the visited as of the visitors.

At the end of about seven years, the two families had an unfortunate
misunderstanding, which occasioned an omission of the usual Christmas
invitation. About an hour before dinner, the Guildford gentleman, who
was standing at the window, exclaimed to his wife, "Well, my dear, the
W.'s have thought better of it, for I declare they are coming as usual,
although we did not invite them; for here comes Cæsar to announce
them;" and the dog came trotting up to the door, and was admitted, as
usual, into the parlor.

The lady of the house gave orders to prepare beds; dinner waited an
hour; but no guests arrived. Cæsar, having staid the exact number of
days to which he had been accustomed, set off for home, and reached it
in safety. The correspondence which subsequently occurred had the happy
effect of renewing the intercourse of the estranged friends; and as
long as Cæsar lived, he paid the annual visit in company with his
master and mistress.

A terrier, belonging to the Marchioness of Stafford, having lost a
litter of puppies, was quite disconsolate, till, perceiving a brood of
young ducks, she immediately seized them, and carried them to her lair,
where she kept them, following them out and in, and nursing them in her
own way with the most affectionate anxiety. When the ducklings, obeying
their instinct, went into the water, their foster-mother exhibited the
utmost alarm, and as soon as they returned to land, she snatched them
up, one by one, in her mouth, and ran home with them.

The next year, the same animal, being again deprived of her puppies,
seized two cock chickens, which she reared with infinite care. When
they began to crow, their foster-mother was as much annoyed as she had
been with the swimming of the young ducks, and never failed to repress
their attempts at crowing.

A man engaged in smuggling lace into France from Flanders, trained an
active and sagacious spaniel to aid him in his enterprise. He caused
him to be shaved, and procured for him the skin of another dog of the
same hair and the same shape. He then rolled the lace round the body of
the dog, and put over it the other skin so adroitly that the trick
could not be easily discovered. The lace being thus arranged, the
smuggler would say to the docile messenger, "Homeward, my friend." At
these words, the dog would start, and pass boldly through the gates of
Malines and Valenciennes in the face of the vigilant officers placed
there to prevent smuggling.

Having thus passed the bounds, he would await his master at a little
distance in the open country. There they mutually caressed and feasted,
and the merchant placed his rich package in a place of security,
renewing his occupation as occasion required. Such was the success of
this smuggler, that, in less than five years, he amassed a handsome
fortune, and kept his coach.

Envy pursues the prosperous. A mischievous neighbor at length betrayed
the lace merchant; notwithstanding all his efforts to disguise the dog,
he was suspected, watched, and discovered. But the cunning of the dog
was equal to the emergency. Did the spies of the custom-house expect
him at one gate, he saw them at a distance, and ran to another; were
all the gates shut against him, he overcame every obstacle; sometimes
he leaped over the wall; at others, passing secretly behind a carriage,
or running between the legs of travellers, he would thus accomplish his
aim. One day, however, while swimming a stream near Malines, he was
shot, and died in the water. There was then about him five thousand
crowns' worth of lace--the loss of which did not afflict his master,
but he was inconsolable for the loss of his faithful dog.

A dog belonging to a chamois-hunter, being on the glaciers in
Switzerland, with an Englishman and his master, observed the former
approaching one of the crevices in the ice, to look into it. He began
to slide towards the edge; his guide, with a view to save him, caught
his coat, and both slid onward, till the dog seized his master's
clothes, and preserved them both from inevitable death.

Dogs have a capacity to act upon excitements of an artificial nature. A
dog, in Paris, at the commencement of the revolution, was known to
musicians by the name of Parade, because he regularly attended the
military at the Tuileries, stood by and marched with the band. At night
he went to the opera, and dined with any musician who intimated, by
word or gesture, that his company was asked; yet always withdrew from
any attempt to be made the property of any individual.

The Penny Magazine furnishes a still more singular instance of the
desire of excitement, in a dog which, for several years, was always
present at the fires in London. Some years ago, a gentleman residing a
few miles from London, in Surrey, was roused in the middle of the night
by the intelligence that the premises adjoining his house of business
were on fire. The removal of his furniture and papers, of course,
immediately called his attention; yet, notwithstanding this, and the
bustle that is ever incident to a fire, his eye every now and then
rested on a dog, whom, during the progress of the devouring element, he
could not help noticing, running about, and apparently taking a deep
interest in what was going on--contriving to keep himself out of every
body's way, and yet always present amidst the thickest of the stir.

When the fire was got under, and the gentleman had leisure to look
about him, he again observed the dog, who, with the firemen, appeared
to be resting from the fatigues of duty, and was led to make inquiries
respecting him. Stooping down, and patting the animal, he addressed a
fireman near him, and asked him if the dog were his.

"No, sir," replied the man, "he does not belong to me, nor to any one
in particular. We call him the firemen's dog."

"The firemen's dog? Why so? Has he no master?"

"No, sir; he calls none of us master, though we are all of us willing
to give him a night's lodging, and a pennyworth of meat; but he won't
stay long with any of us. His delight is to be at all the fires of
London, and, far or near, we generally find him on the road as we are
going along; and sometimes, if it is out of town, we give him a lift. I
don't think that there has been a fire for these two or three years
past which he has not been at."

Three years after this conversation, the same gentleman was again
called up in the night to a fire in the village where he resided, and,
to his surprise, he again met "the firemen's dog," still alive and
well, pursuing, with the same apparent interest and satisfaction, the
exhibition of that which generally brings with it ruin and loss of
life. Still he called no man master, disdained to receive bed or board
from the same hand more than a night or two at a time, nor could the
firemen trace out his ordinary resting-place.

To this long list, we might add many other anecdotes, in evidence of
the varied powers of the canine family. We have endeavored to select
those only which are well authenticated. Some of these are sufficiently
marvellous, but there are many other well-attested accounts equally
wonderful. Mr. Hogg seems to imagine that mankind are prepared to
believe any thing in respect to dogs which partakes of the mysterious,
and accordingly plays off the following quiet joke upon his readers:--

"It's a good sign of a dog when his face grows like his master's. It's
proof he's aye glow'ring up in his master's e'en to discover what he's
thinking on; and then, without the word or wave of command, to be aff
to execute the wull o' his silent thocht, whether it be to wean sheep,
or to run doon deer. Hector got so like me, afore he dee'd, that I
remember, when I was owre lazy to gang to the kirk, I used to send him
to take my place in the pew, and the minister never kent the
difference. Indeed, he once asked me next day what I thocht of the
sermon; for he saw me wonderfu' attentive amang a rather sleepy
congregation.

"Hector and me gied ane anither sic a look! and I was feared Mr. Paton
would have observed it; but he was a simple, primitive, unsuspecting
old man--a very Nathaniel without guile, and he jaloused nothing; tho'
both Hector and me was like to split; and the dog, after laughing in
his sleeve for mair than a hundred yards, couldn't stand't nae longer,
but was obliged to loup awa owre a hedge into a potato field,
pretending to scent partridges."


THE WOLF.

This is a fierce and savage beast, resembling in form and size the
Newfoundland dog. It hunts in packs, and attacks deer, sheep, and
sometimes even man himself. When taken young, it may be tamed. It is
found in the northern portions of both continents. In North America,
there are several varieties.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--Mr. Cuvier gives an account of a wolf that
had all the obedience and affection that any dog could evince. He was
brought up by his master in the same manner as a puppy, and, when full
grown, was sent to the menagerie at Paris. For many weeks, he was quite
disconsolate at the separation from his master, refused to take food,
and was indifferent to his keepers. At length he became attached to
those about him, and seemed to have forgotten his old affections.

On his master's return, however, in a year and a half, the wolf heard
his voice among the crowd in the gardens, and, being set at liberty,
displayed the most violent joy. He was again separated from his friend;
and again, his grief was as extreme as on the first occasion.

After three years' absence, his master once more returned. It was
evening, and the wolf's den was shut up from any external observation;
yet, the moment the man's voice was heard, the faithful animal set up
the most anxious cries, and, on the door of his cage being opened, he
rushed to his friend, leaped upon his shoulders, licked his face, and
threatened to bite his keepers when they attempted to separate them.
When the man again left him, he fell sick, and refused all food; and
from the time of his recovery, which was long very doubtful, it was
always dangerous for a stranger to approach him.

A story is told of a Scotch bagpiper, who was travelling in Ireland one
evening, when he suddenly encountered a wolf who seemed to be very
ravenous. The poor man could think of no other expedient to save his
life, than to open his wallet, and try the effect of hospitality; he
did so, and the savage beast swallowed all that was thrown to him with
such voracity, that it seemed as if his appetite was not in the least
degree satisfied.

The whole stock of provisions was of course soon spent, and now the
man's only resource was in the virtues of his bagpipe; this the monster
no sooner heard than he took to the mountains with the same
precipitation with which he had left them. The poor piper did not
wholly enjoy his deliverance; for, looking ruefully at his empty
wallet, he shook his fist at the departing animal, saying, "Ay! Are
these your tricks? Had I known your humor, you should have had your
music before your supper."

In Sweden, frequent attacks are made upon the people by wolves, during
the winter, as they are then often in a famishing condition. In one
instance, a party of sixteen sledges were returning from a dance on a
cold and starlight night. In the middle of the cavalcade was a sledge
occupied by a lady; at the back of the vehicle sat the servant; and at
her feet, on a bear skin, reposed her favorite lapdog. In passing
through a wood, a large wolf suddenly sprang out, and, jumping into the
sledge, seized the poor dog, and was out of sight before any steps
could be taken for his rescue.

A Swedish peasant was one day crossing a large lake on his sledge, when
he was attacked by a drove of wolves. This frightened the horse so much
that he went off at full speed. There was a loose rope hanging from the
back of the vehicle that had been used for binding hay; to the end of
this a noose happened to be attached. Though this was not intended to
catch a wolf, it fortunately effected that object; for one of the
ferocious animals getting his feet entangled in it, he was immediately
destroyed, owing to the rapidity with which the horse was proceeding.

The poor man at length reached a place of safety. Though he had been
dreadfully frightened during the ride, he not only found himself much
sooner at the end of his journey than he expected, but richer by the
booty he had thus unexpectedly gained--the skin of a wolf in this
country being worth about two dollars and a half.

A peasant in Russia was once pursued in his sledge by eleven wolves.
Being about two miles from home, he urged his horse to the very extent
of his speed. At the entrance to his residence was a gate, which being
shut at the time, the frightened horse dashed open, and carried his
master safely into the courtyard. Nine of the wolves followed them into
the enclosure, when fortunately the gate swung back, and shut them all
as it were in a trap. Finding themselves thus caught, the animals
seemed to lose all their ferocity; and, as escape was impossible, slunk
into holes and corners, molesting no one, and offering no resistance.
They were all despatched without further difficulty.

The prairie wolf is said to be wonderfully cunning and sagacious.
Instances have been known of his burrowing under ground to procure the
bait from a trap, rather than run the chance of being caught above.
Many and curious are the devices prepared to ensnare this animal, but
very few have succeeded. This variety of wolf is common in the prairies
of the western country, where it hunts deer by running them down.
Sometimes a large number associate together, and, forming a crescent,
creep slowly towards a herd of deer, so as not to alarm them. They then
rush on with hideous yells, and drive the poor animals towards a
precipice, seeming to know that, when they are once at full speed, they
will all follow one another over the cliff. The wolves then descend at
leisure, and feed upon their slaughtered victims.

A farmer in France, one day looking through the hedge in his garden,
observed a wolf walking round a mule, but unable to get at him on
account of the mule's constantly kicking with his hind legs. As the
farmer perceived that the beast was so well able to defend himself, he
did not interfere. After the attack and defence had lasted a quarter of
an hour, the wolf ran off to a neighboring ditch, where he several
times plunged into the water.

The farmer imagined that he did this to refresh himself after the
fatigue he had sustained, and had no doubt that his mule had gained a
complete victory; but in a few minutes the wolf returned to the charge,
and, approaching as near as he could to the head of the mule, shook
himself, and spouted a quantity of water into the animal's eyes, which
caused him immediately to shut them. That moment, the wolf leaped upon
him, and killed the poor animal before the farmer could come to his
assistance.

In the commencement of the reign of Louis XIV., of France, in the depth
of winter, a party of dragoons were attacked, at the foot of the
mountains of Jurat, by a multitude of wolves; the dragoons fought
bravely, and killed many hundreds of them; but at last, overpowered by
numbers, they and their horses were all devoured. A cross is erected on
the place of combat, with an inscription in commemoration of it, which
is to be seen at this day.


THE FOX.

This animal, which resembles a small dog, is widely distributed over
the colder portions of both continents. There are several species, as
the red, gray, black, silver, arctic, &c. In all ages and countries,
the fox has been remarkable for his cunning, and, from the time of Æsop
to the present day, has figured, in allegory and fable, as the
personification of artifice and duplicity.

_Fruitless Enterprise._--A fox finding himself hard run by the hounds,
at a hunt in Ireland, ran up a stone wall, from which he sprang on the
roof of an adjoining cabin, and mounted up to the chimney-top. From
that elevated station, he looked all around him, as if reconnoitring
the coming enemy. A wily old hound approaching, and having gained the
roof, was preparing to seize the fox, when, lo! renard dropped suddenly
down the chimney. The dog looked wistfully down the dark opening, but
dared not pursue the fugitive.

Meanwhile renard, half enrobed in soot, had fallen into the lap of an
old woman, who, surrounded by a number of children, was gravely smoking
her pipe, not at all expecting the entrance of this abrupt visitor.
"_Emiladh deouil!_" said the affrighted female, as she threw from
her the red and black quadruped. Renard grinned, growled, and showed
his fangs; and when the huntsmen, who had secured the door, entered,
they found him in quiet possession of the kitchen, the old woman and
children having retired, in terror of the invader, to an obscure corner
of the room. The fox was taken alive without much difficulty.

_Unavailing Artifice._--Two gentlemen in New Jersey went out to hunt
rabbits. In a low, bushy swamp, the dogs started a fox, and off they
went in swift pursuit. After a chase of two miles, he entered a very
dense thicket, and, making a circuit of the place, returned to the
point whence he first started. The dogs closely pursuing the fox, he
again started for the thicket, when one of the sportsmen shot at him,
and he fell apparently dead at his feet. As he stooped to pick him up,
however, he rose upon his legs and escaped. For two hours and a half,
the thicket was the scene of the wiles of renard; but at last he was
taken, and, being carried home by the men, was thrown, apparently quite
dead, into the corner of the room.

The family sat down to supper. Finding them all busily engaged, he
ventured to reconnoitre, and had cautiously raised himself on his fore
legs for the purpose, but, on finding himself observed, resumed his
quiescent state. One of the party, to ascertain whether the fox was
alive or not, passed a piece of lighted paper under his nose; but the
inanimate stone or log appeared not more senseless at that moment.
Finding all attempts to get away unavailing, renard submitted to his
destiny with a very good grace, and the next morning was as well as
ever, bating a slight wound in the shoulder and a dirty skin.

_Unexpected Resentment._--Some country people in Germany once caught a
pike, but in conveying it home during the night, it escaped. As it was
a large fish, they returned with torches to secure their prize, and
after some time found it on the grass, having fast hold of a fox by the
nose. The animal caught in this novel trap made every effort to escape,
without success; and it was not until the pike was killed, that it was
possible to separate them. It seems that, after the pike was dropped by
the fisherman, renard came across it, and in paying his addresses to
it, was received in the manner we have described.


THE HYENA.

This animal, which is the size of a large dog, belongs to Africa. It is
very ferocious, feeds on flesh, and prefers that which is in a state of
decay. It seems, with the vulture, to be a scavenger to remove masses
of putrid flesh, which, in these hot regions, would otherwise breed
infection and disease.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--Bruce, in his "Travels in Africa," gives us
the following account of the hyena:--

"One night, being very busily engaged in my tent, I heard something
pass behind me towards the bed, but, upon looking round, could perceive
nothing. Having finished what I was about, I went out, resolving
directly to return, which I did. I now perceived a pair of large blue
eyes glaring at me in the dark. I called to my servant to bring a
light, and there stood a hyena, near the head of my bed, with two or
three large bunches of candles in his mouth. As his mouth was full, I
was not afraid of him; so, with my pike, I struck him as near the heart
as I could judge. It was not till then that he showed any signs of
fierceness; but, feeling his wound, he let the candles drop, and
endeavored to climb up the handle of the spear, to arrive at me; so
that, in self-defence, I was obliged to draw a pistol from my girdle,
and shoot him; nearly at the same time, my servant cleft his skull with
a battle-axe.

"The hyena appears to be senseless and stupid during the day. I have
locked up with him a goat, a kid, and a lamb, all day, when he was
fasting, and found them in the evening alive and unhurt. Repeating the
experiment one night, he ate up a young ass, a goat, and a fox, all
before morning, so as to leave nothing but some small fragments of the
ass's bones."

Sparman furnishes us with the following story:--"One night, at a feast
near the Cape, a trumpeter, who had got himself well filled with
liquor, was carried out of doors in order to cool and sober him. The
scent of him soon attracted a spotted hyena, which threw him on his
back, and carried him away to Sable Mountain, thinking him a corpse,
and consequently a fair prize.

"In the mean time, our drunken musician awoke, sufficiently sensible to
know the danger of his situation, and to sound his alarm with his
trumpet, which he carried at his side. The beast, as it may be
imagined, was greatly frightened, in its turn, and immediately ran
away."


THE LION.

This animal stands at the head of the numerous family of cats, and has
often been ranked by naturalists as the lord of the brute creation, and
holding the same relation to quadrupeds as the eagle does to birds.

Like all the rest of his genus, the lion steals upon his prey, and,
when at a proper distance, rushes upon it with a bound, securing it in
his sharp claws. In general he is cowardly; but, in pursuit of his
prey, he is, to the last degree, fearless and ferocious. His strength
is so great that he can break a man's skull with the stroke of his paw,
and can drag the body of a cow over the ground at a gallop. His roar is
terrific, and when heard, the animals around seem agitated with the
wildest terror. The lion is common in the hot parts of Africa, and is
occasionally found in India.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--Some Hottentots once perceived a lion
dragging a buffalo from the plain to a neighboring woody hill. They
soon forced him to quit his prey, in order to secure it for themselves.
They now found that the lion had had the sagacity to take out those
inner parts of the buffalo that it rejected as food, in order to make
it easier to carry away the fleshy and eatable parts of the carcass,
thus showing reflection on his part.

It is probable that the lion does not easily venture upon any one who
puts himself in a posture of defence. The following anecdote would seem
to show that this is the case. A young man was walking one day on his
lands in the southern parts of Africa, when he unexpectedly met a large
lion. Being an excellent shot, he thought himself sure of killing him,
and therefore fired. But unfortunately, the charge had been in the
piece for some time, and the ball fell before it reached the animal.
The young man, seized with panic, now took to his heels; but being soon
out of breath, and closely pursued by the lion, he jumped upon a little
heap of stones, and there made a stand, presenting the butt-end of his
gun to his adversary, fully resolved to defend his life as well as he
could.

This movement had such an effect upon the lion, that he likewise came
to a stand; and what was still more singular, laid himself down at some
paces' distance from the stones, seemingly quite unconcerned. The
sportsman, in the mean while, did not dare to stir a step from the
spot; besides, in his flight, he had lost his powder-horn. At length,
after waiting a good half hour, the lion rose up, and retreated slowly,
step by step, as if it had a mind to steal off; but as soon as it got
to a greater distance, it began to bound away with great rapidity.

It is related that Geoffrey de la Tour, one of the knights that went
upon the first crusade to the Holy Land, heard, one day, as he rode
through a forest, a cry of distress. Hoping to rescue some unfortunate
sufferer, the knight rode boldly into the thicket; but what was his
astonishment, when he beheld a large lion, with a serpent coiled round
his body! To relieve the distressed was the duty of every knight;
therefore, with a single stroke of the sword, and regardless of the
consequences to himself, he killed the serpent, and extricated the
tremendous animal from his perilous situation.

From that hour the grateful creature constantly accompanied his
deliverer, whom he followed like a dog, and never displayed his natural
ferocity but at his command. At length, the crusade being terminated,
Sir Geoffrey prepared to set sail for Europe. He wished to take the
lion with him; but the master of the ship was unwilling to admit him on
board, and the knight was, therefore, obliged to leave him on the
shore. The lion, when he saw himself separated from his beloved master,
first began to roar hideously; then, seeing the ship moving off, he
plunged into the waves, and endeavored to swim after it. But all his
efforts were in vain; and at length, his strength being exhausted, he
sank, and the ocean ingulfed the noble animal, whose unshaken fidelity
deserved a better fate.

Some years since there was, in a menagerie at Cassel, in Germany, a
large lion, whose keeper was a woman, to whom the animal seemed most
affectionately attached. In order to amuse the company, this woman was
in the habit of putting her hands, and even her head, into the lion's
mouth, without experiencing the least injury. Upon one occasion,
however, having introduced her head, as usual, between the animal's
jaws, he made a sudden snap, and killed her on the spot.

Undoubtedly, this catastrophe was unintentional on the part of the
lion; probably the hair of the woman's head irritated his throat, so as
to make him sneeze or cough. This supposition is confirmed by the
subsequent conduct of the animal; for as soon as he perceived that he
had killed his attendant, the good-tempered, grateful creature
exhibited the signs of the deepest melancholy, laid himself down by the
side of the dead body, which he would not suffer to be removed, refused
to take any food, and, in a few days, pined himself to death.

A remarkable instance of docility in a lion once took place in the
menagerie at Chester, in England. A strange keeper, having fed a
magnificent lion one evening, neglected to fasten the door of the den.
The watchman, when going his rounds about three the next morning,
discovered the king of beasts deliberately walking about the yard, and
surveying the objects with apparent curiosity. The watchman went to
call the proprietors, and when they arrived they found the lion
_couchant_ upon the top of one of the coaches in the yard. With very
little entreaty, the monarch of the forest deigned to descend from his
throne, and very graciously followed a young lady, the proprietor's
daughter, back to his den.

Some time ago, for the purpose of seeing the manner in which the lion
pounces upon his prey, a little dog was, most cruelly, thrown into the
den of one of these animals in the Tower Menagerie. The poor little
animal skulked, in terror, to the most remote corner of the lion's
apartment, who, regarding him with complacency, refrained from
approaching him. The little trembler, seeing the lion's mildness,
ventured to draw near him; and soon becoming familiar, they lived
together thenceforward in the most perfect harmony; and, although the
little dog had sometimes the temerity to dispute his share of food with
the king of the beasts, yet he magnanimously allowed him to satisfy his
appetite before he thought of making a meal himself.

A lioness in the Tower of London once formed such an attachment for a
little dog which was kept with her in the den, that she would not eat
till the dog was first satisfied. After the lioness had become a
mother, it was thought advisable to take the animal away, for fear that
her jealous fondness for her whelps might lead her to injure it. But
while the keeper was cleaning the den, the dog, by some means, got into
it, and approached the lioness with his wonted fondness. She was
playing with her cubs; and, seeing the dog approach, she sprang towards
him, and, seizing the poor little animal by the throat, seemed in the
act of tearing him to pieces; but as if she momentarily recollected her
former fondness for him, she carried him to the door of the den, and
suffered him to be taken out unhurt.

To the traveller in Africa, the lion is formidable not at night only;
he lies in his path, and is with difficulty disturbed, to allow a
passage for his wagons and cattle, even when the sun is shining with
its utmost brilliancy; or he is roused from some bushy place, on the
roadside, by the indefatigable dogs which always accompany a caravan.
Mr. Burchell has described, with great spirit, an encounter of this
nature:--

"The day was exceedingly pleasant, and not a cloud was to be seen. For
a mile or two we travelled along the banks of the river, which in this
part abounded in tall mat-rushes. The dogs seemed much to enjoy
prowling about, and examining every bushy place, and at last met with
some object among the rushes which caused them to set up a most
vehement and determined barking. We explored the spot with caution, as
we suspected, from the peculiar tone of their bark, that it was, what
it proved to be, lions. Having encouraged the dogs to drive them out, a
task which they performed with great willingness, we had a full view of
an enormous black-maned lion and lioness. The latter was seen only for
a minute, as she made her escape up the river, under concealment of the
rushes; but _the lion_ came steadily forward, and stood still to look
at us. At this moment we felt our situation not free from danger, as
the animal seemed preparing to spring upon us, and we were standing on
the bank at the distance of only a few yards from him, most of us being
on foot and unarmed, without any visible possibility of escaping.

"I had given up my horse to the hunters, and was on foot myself; but
there was no time for fear, and it was useless to attempt avoiding him.
I stood well upon my guard, holding my pistols in my hand, with my
finger upon the trigger; and those who had muskets kept themselves
prepared in the same manner. But at this instant the dogs boldly flew
in between us and the lion, and, surrounding him, kept him at bay by
their violent and resolute barking. The courage of these faithful
animals was most admirable; they advanced up to the side of the huge
beast, and stood making the greatest clamor in his face, without the
least appearance of fear. The lion, conscious of his strength, remained
unmoved at their noisy attempts, and kept his head turned towards us.
At one moment, the dogs, perceiving his eyes thus engaged, had advanced
close to his feet, and seemed as if they would actually seize hold of
him; but they paid dearly for their imprudence; for, without
discomposing the majestic and steady attitude in which he stood fixed,
he merely moved his paw, and at the next instant I beheld two lying
dead. In doing this, he made so little exertion, that it was scarcely
perceptible by what means they had been killed. Of the time which we
had gained by the interference of the dogs, not a moment was lost. We
fired upon him; one of the balls went through his side just between the
short ribs, and the blood immediately began to flow; but the animal
still remained standing in the same position. We had now no doubt that
he would spring upon us; every gun was instantly reloaded; but happily
we were mistaken, and were not sorry to see him move quietly away;
though I had hoped in a few minutes to have been enabled to take hold
of his paw without danger.

"This was considered, by our party, to be a lion of the largest size,
and seemed, as I measured him by comparison with the dogs, to be,
though less bulky, as heavy as an ox. He was certainly as long in body,
though lower in stature; and his copious mane gave him a truly
formidable appearance. He was of that variety which the Hottentots and
boors distinguish by the name of the _black lion_, on account of the
blacker color of the mane, and which is said to be always larger and
more dangerous than the other, which they call the _pale lion_. Of the
courage of a lion I have no very high opinion; but of his majestic air
and movements, as exhibited by this animal, while at liberty in his
native plains, I can bear testimony. Notwithstanding the pain of a
wound, of which he must soon afterwards have died, he moved slowly
away, with a stately and measured step."


THE TIGER.

This animal, of which there is but one species, is found in the
southern parts of Asia, and the adjacent islands. It is inferior only
to the lion in strength, size, and courage. The body is long, the legs
rather short, the eyes glassy, and the countenance haggard, savage, and
ferocious. It has strength to seize a man and carry him off at full
gallop, and its ferocity leads it to slay beyond its desire for food.
In contrast to these hideous qualities, its skin is marked with a
singular beauty, being of a fawn color, splendidly striped downward
with black bands. Its step resembles that of a cat. When taken young,
and kindly treated, it grows familiar, and exhibits gentleness and
affection towards its keeper.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--Of the muscular powers of the tiger we
have the following illustration: A buffalo, belonging to a peasant in
the East Indies, having fallen into a quagmire, the man was himself
unable to extricate it, and went to call the assistance of his
neighbors. Meanwhile, a large tiger, coming to the spot, seized upon
the buffalo, and dragged him out. When the men came to the place, they
saw the tiger, with the buffalo thrown over his shoulder, in the act of
retiring with him towards the jungle. No sooner, however, did he
observe the men, than he let fall the dead animal, and precipitately
escaped. On coming up, they found the buffalo quite dead, and his whole
blood sucked out. Some idea may be gained of the immense power of the
tiger, when it is mentioned that the ordinary weight of a buffalo is
above a thousand pounds, and consequently considerably more than double
its own weight.

The effect of feeding the tiger upon raw flesh, is shown by the
following anecdote: A party of gentlemen, from Bombay, found, one day,
in a cavern, a tiger's whelp, which was hidden in an obscure corner.
Snatching it up hastily, they cautiously retreated. Being left entirely
at liberty, and well fed, the tiger became tame, like the dog, grew
rapidly, and appeared entirely domesticated. At length it attained a
great size, and began to inspire terror by its tremendous strength and
power, notwithstanding its gentleness. Up to this moment, it had been
studiously kept from raw meat. But, unfortunately, during its rambles,
a piece of flesh dripping with blood fell in its way. The instant it
had tasted it, something like madness seemed to seize the animal; a
destructive principle, hitherto dormant, was kindled: it darted
fiercely, and with glowing eyes, upon its prey--tore it with fury to
pieces, and, growling and roaring in the most frightful manner, rushed
off, and disappeared in the jungle.

Tigers are sometimes very cunning. One of them was kept at a French
factory, at Silsceri, which was secured by a strong chain. This animal
used to scatter a portion of the rice that was set before him as far
round the front of his den as possible. This enticed the poultry to
come and pick it up. The tiger pretended to be asleep, in order to
induce them to approach nearer, when he suddenly sprang upon them, and
seldom failed to make several of them his prey.

This animal is susceptible of strong attachments. An instance of this
is recorded of a tigress of great beauty in the Tower at London. She
was extremely docile in her passage home from Calcutta, was allowed to
run about the vessel, and became exceedingly familiar with the sailors.
On her arrival in London, however, her temper became irascible, and
even dangerous, and she exhibited for some days a savage and sulky
disposition.

Shortly after, a sailor, who had had charge of her on board the ship,
came to the Tower, and begged permission to enter her den. No sooner
did she recognize her old friend, than she fawned upon him, licked and
caressed him, exhibiting the most extravagant signs of pleasure; and,
when he left her, she whined and cried the whole day afterwards. In
time, however, she became reconciled to her new keeper and residence.

Some years ago, a tame tiger was led about Madras by some of the
natives, without any other restraint than a muzzle, and a small chain
round his neck. The men lived by exhibiting, to the curious, the
tiger's method of seizing his prey. The manner in which they showed
this, was by fastening a sheep to a stake driven into the earth. The
tiger was no sooner brought in sight of it than he crouched, and moved
along the ground on his belly, slowly and cautiously, till he came
within the limits of a bound, when he sprang upon the sheep with the
rapidity of an arrow, and struck it dead in an instant.

Although the tigress sometimes destroys her young ones, she generally
shows much anxiety for them. Two cubs were once discovered by some
villagers, in India, while their mother was in quest of prey, and
presented by them to a gentleman, who had them put in his stable. The
creatures made piteous howlings every night, which at last reached the
ears of the mother. She came to the spot, and answered their cries by
hideous howlings, which so alarmed their keeper that he let the cubs
loose, for fear the dam would break the door of the stable. Nothing was
seen of them the next morning; the tigress had carried them both off
into the jungle.

The tiger is often hunted in India, and frequently the sportsmen are
mounted upon elephants. Sometimes the animal is shot, and occasionally
he is trodden to death, or laid prostrate on the earth, by the tramp of
the elephant. Numerous anecdotes are told of these rencounters, all
tending to show the fierce and formidable character of the tiger. It is
much more active and ferocious than the lion, and is also more
dangerous to the inhabitants who live in the vicinity of its retreats.


THE PANTHER.

This animal, which is a native of Northern Africa, is smaller than the
tiger, but it possesses the same ferocious disposition. It preys upon
every animal it can master, and man himself sometimes falls a victim to
its rapacity. Its color is fawn, spotted with black.

_A tame Panther._--Notwithstanding the savage character and habits of
this animal, Mr. Bowditch, who resided at Coomassie, in Western Africa,
gives us an interesting account of one that he tamed. When he was about
a year old, he was taken to Cape Coast, being led through the country
by a chain. When he arrived, he was placed in a court, where he became
quite familiar with those around him, laying his paws upon their
shoulders, and rubbing his head upon them. By degrees all fear of him
subsided, and he was allowed to go at liberty within the gates of the
castle, having a small boy for a keeper. On one occasion, Sai, as the
panther was called, finding the lad sitting upright on the step fast
asleep, lifted his paw, and gave him a blow on the side of the head,
which knocked him down, and then stood wagging his tail, as if enjoying
the mischief he had done.

On another occasion, as an old woman was sweeping the hall with a short
broom, which brought her nearly down upon all fours, Sai, who was
hidden under the sofa, suddenly leaped upon her back, where he stood in
triumph. She screamed violently, and all her fellow-servants scampered
away in terror; nor was she released till the governor himself came to
her assistance.

After the departure of Mr. Bowditch from the castle, the ship in which
he had embarked lay at anchor some weeks in the River Gaboon: while
here, an orangoutang was brought on board, and the rage of the panther,
who had accompanied his master, was indescribable. His back rose in an
arch, his tail was elevated and perfectly stiff, his eyes flashed, and
if he had not been restrained, he would have torn the ape in pieces. At
the same time, the orang showed the greatest fear and terror.

After sailing to England, the change of climate seemed to affect Sai,
and medicine was given him in the shape of pills. These had the desired
effect. On reaching the London Docks, he was taken ashore, and
presented to the Duchess of York, who had him placed in Exeter 'Change.
Here he remained for some weeks, apparently in good health; but he was
taken suddenly ill, and died of an inflammation on the lungs.


THE LEOPARD.

This animal is more slender and graceful than the panther, yet it has
all the savage qualities of the feline race. Its skin is exceedingly
beautiful, being of a light fawn, marked with black spots. Nothing can
surpass the ease, grace, and agility, of its movements.

_Hunting the Leopard._--Two boors in Southern Africa, in the year 1822,
returning from hunting the hartebeest, fell in with a leopard in a
mountain ravine, and immediately gave chase to him. The animal at first
endeavored to escape, by clambering up a precipice; but, being hotly
pressed, and slightly wounded by a musket-ball, he turned upon his
pursuers, with that frantic ferocity which, on such emergencies, he
frequently displays: springing upon the man who had fired at him, he
tore him from his horse to the ground, biting him, at the same time,
very severely on the shoulder, and tearing his face and arms with his
claws. The other hunter, seeing the danger of his comrade, sprang from
his horse, and attempted to shoot the leopard through the head; but,
whether owing to trepidation, the fear of wounding his friend, or the
sudden motions of the animal, he unfortunately missed his aim. The
leopard, abandoning his prostrate enemy, darted with redoubled fury
upon this second antagonist; and so fierce and sudden was his onset,
that, before the boor could stab him with his hunting-knife, he struck
him in the eyes with his claws, and had torn the scalp over his
forehead. In this frightful condition, the hunter grappled with the
raging beast, and, struggling for life, they rolled together down a
steep declivity. All this passed so rapidly that the other man had
scarcely time to recover from the confusion into which his feline foe
had thrown him, to seize his gun, and rush forward to aid his
comrade--when he beheld them rolling together down the steep bank, in
mortal conflict. In a few moments he was at the bottom with them, but
too late to save the life of his friend, who had so gallantly defended
him. The leopard had torn open the jugular vein, and so dreadfully
mangled the throat of the unfortunate man, that his death was
inevitable; and his comrade had only the melancholy satisfaction of
completing the destruction of the savage beast, which was already much
exhausted by several deep wounds in the breast, from the desperate
knife of the expiring huntsman.

_Captive Leopards._--Mr. Brown gives us the following account: "There
are at present in the Tower a pair of these animals, from Asia,
confined in the same den. The female is very tame, and gentle in her
temper, and will allow herself to be patted and caressed by the
keepers, while she licks their hands, and purrs. She, however, has one
peculiarity--that she cannot bear many of the appendages which visitors
bring with them to the menagerie. She has a particular predilection for
the destruction of parasols, umbrellas, muffs, and hats, which she
frequently contrives to lay hold of before the unwary spectator can
prevent it, and tears them to pieces in an instant. She has been five
years in the Tower, during which time she has seized and destroyed
several hundreds of these articles, as well as other parts of ladies'
dress. While this creature is in a playful mood, she bounds about her
cell with the quickness of thought, touching the four sides of it
nearly at one and the same instant. So rapid are her motions, that she
can scarcely be followed by the eye; and she will even skim along the
ceiling of her apartment with the same amazing rapidity, evincing great
pliability of form and wonderful muscular powers. The male has been
about two years in the Tower, and is only beginning to suffer
familiarities; but he seems jealous of the slightest approach. He is
larger than the female, the color of his skin more highly toned, and
the spotting more intensely black."


THE JAGUAR.

This animal is confined to South America, where it is frequently called
a tiger. It greatly resembles the panther of Africa in size,
appearance, and habits. It inhabits thick forests, and sometimes
destroys cows and horses. It also feeds on fish, which it entices to
the surface by its spittle, and then knocks them out of the water with
its paw.

_The Jaguar's Cave._--From the numerous anecdotes in relation to this
animal, we select the following interesting account communicated to the
Edinburgh Literary Journal: "On leaving the Indian village, we
continued to wind round Chimborazo's wide base; but its snow-crowned
head no longer shone above us in clear brilliancy, for a dense fog was
gathering gradually around it. Our guides looked anxiously towards it,
and announced their apprehensions of a violent storm. We soon found
that their fears were well founded. The thunder began to roll, and
resounded through the mountainous passes with the most terrific
grandeur. Then came the vivid lightning; flash following flash--above,
around, beneath--every where a sea of fire. We sought a momentary
shelter in the cleft of the rocks, whilst one of our guides hastened
forward to seek a more secure asylum. In a short time he returned and
informed us that he had discovered a spacious cavern, which would
afford us sufficient protection from the elements. We proceeded thither
immediately, and with great difficulty, and some danger, at last got
into it.

"When the storm had somewhat abated, our guides ventured out, to
ascertain if it were possible to continue our journey. The cave in
which we had taken refuge was so extremely dark, that, if we moved a
few paces from the entrance, we could not see an inch before us; and we
were debating as to the propriety of leaving it, even before the
Indians came back, when we suddenly heard a singular groaning or
growling, in the farther end of the cavern, which instantly fixed all
our attention. Wharton and myself listened anxiously; but our
inconsiderate young friend Lincoln, together with my huntsman, crept
about on their hands and knees, and endeavored to discover, by groping,
whence the sound proceeded.

"They had not advanced far into the cavern, before we heard them utter
an exclamation of surprise; and they returned to us, each carrying in
his arms an animal singularly marked, about the size of a cat,
seemingly of great strength and power, and furnished with immense
fangs. The eyes were of a green color; strong claws were upon their
feet; and a blood-red tongue hung out of their mouths. Wharton had
scarcely glanced at them, when he exclaimed in consternation, 'We have
come into the den of a ----' He was interrupted by a fearful cry of
dismay from our guides, who came rushing precipitately towards us,
calling out, 'A tiger, a tiger!' and, at the same time, with
extraordinary rapidity, they climbed up a cedar-tree which stood at the
entrance of the cave, and hid themselves among the branches.

"After the first sensation of horror and surprise, which rendered me
motionless for a moment, had subsided, I grasped my fire-arms. Wharton
had already regained his composure and self-possession; and he called
to us to assist in blocking up the mouth of the cave with an immense
stone which fortunately lay near it. The sense of imminent danger
augmented our strength; for we now distinctly heard the growl of the
ferocious animal, and we were lost, beyond redemption, if he reached
the entrance before we could get it closed. Ere this was done, we could
distinctly see the tiger bounding towards the spot, and stooping in
order to creep into his den by the narrow opening. At this fearful
moment, our exertions were successful, and the great stone kept the
wild beast at bay.

"There was a small, open space, however, left between the top of the
entrance and the stone, through which we could see the head of the
animal, illuminated by his glowing eyes, which he rolled, glaring with
fury, upon us. His frightful roaring, too, penetrated to the depths of
the cavern, and was answered by the hoarse growling of the cubs. Our
ferocious enemy attempted first to remove the stone with his powerful
claws, and then to push it with his head from its place; and these
efforts proving abortive, served only to increase his wrath. He uttered
a tremendous, heart-piercing growl, and his flaming eyes darted light
into the darkness of our retreat.

"'Now is the time to fire at him,' said Wharton, with his usual
calmness. 'Aim at his eyes; the ball will go through his brain, and we
shall then have a chance to get rid of him.'

"Frank seized his double-barrelled gun, and Lincoln his pistols. The
former placed the muzzle within a few inches of the tiger, and Lincoln
did the same. At Wharton's command, they both drew their triggers at
the same moment; but no shot followed. The tiger, who seemed aware that
the flash indicated an attack upon him, sprang growling from the
entrance, but, finding himself unhurt, immediately turned back, and
stationed himself in his former place. The powder in both pieces was
wet.

"'All is now over,' said Wharton. 'We have only now to choose whether
we shall die of hunger, together with these animals who are shut up
along with us, or open the entrance to the bloodthirsty monster
without, and so make a quicker end of the matter.'

"So saying, he placed himself close beside the stone, which for the
moment defended us, and looked undauntedly upon the lightning eyes of
the tiger. Lincoln raved, and Frank took a piece of strong cord from
his pocket, and hastened to the farther end of the cave I knew not with
what design. We soon, however, heard a low, stifled groaning; the
tiger, which had heard it also, became more restless and disturbed than
ever. He went backwards and forwards, before the entrance of the cave,
in the most wild and impetuous manner; then stood still, and,
stretching out his neck towards the forest, broke forth into a
deafening howl.

"Our two Indian guides took advantage of this opportunity to discharge
several arrows from the tree; but the light weapons bounded back
harmless from his thick skin. At length, however, one of them struck
him near the eye, and the arrow remained sticking in the wound. He now
broke anew into the wildest fury, sprang at the tree, and tore it with
his claws, as if he would have dragged it to the ground. But having at
length succeeded in getting rid of the arrow, he became more calm, and
laid himself down, as before, in front of the cave.

"Frank now returned from the lower end of the den, and a glance showed
us what he had been doing. In each hand, and dangling from the end of a
string, were the two cubs. He had strangled them, and, before we were
aware what he intended, he threw them, through the opening, to the
tiger. No sooner did the animal perceive them, than he gazed earnestly
upon them, and began to examine them closely, turning them cautiously
from side to side. As soon as he became aware that they were dead, he
uttered so piercing a howl of sorrow, that we were obliged to put our
hands to our ears.

"The thunder had now ceased, and the storm had sunk to a gentle gale;
the songs of the birds were again heard in the neighboring forest, and
the sunbeams sparkled in the drops that hung from the leaves. We saw,
through the aperture, how all nature was reviving, after the wild war
of elements which had so recently taken place; but the contrast only
made our situation the more horrible. The tiger had laid himself down
beside his whelps. He was a beautiful animal, of great size and
strength; and his limbs, being stretched out at their full length,
displayed his immense power of muscle. A double row of great teeth
stood far enough apart to show his large red tongue, from which the
white foam fell in large drops.

"All at once, another roar was heard at a distance, and the tiger
immediately rose, and answered it with a mournful howl. At the same
instant, our Indians uttered a shriek, which announced that some new
danger threatened us. A few moments confirmed our worst fears; for
another tiger, not quite so large as the former, came rapidly towards
the spot where we were.

"The howls which the tigress gave, when she had examined the bodies of
her cubs, surpassed every thing of horrible that we had yet heard; and
the tiger mingled his mournful cries with hers. Suddenly her roaring
was lowered to a hoarse growling, and we saw her anxiously stretch out
her head, extend her wide and smoking nostrils, and look as if she were
determined to discover immediately the murderers of her young. Her eyes
quickly fell upon us, and she made a spring forward, with the intention
of penetrating our place of refuge. Perhaps she might have been
enabled, by her immense strength, to push away the stone, had we not,
with all our united power, held it against her.

"When she found that all her efforts were fruitless, she approached the
tiger, who lay stretched out beside his cubs, and he rose and joined in
her hollow roarings. They stood together for a few moments, as if in
consultation, and then suddenly went off at a rapid pace, and
disappeared from our sight. Their howlings died away in the distance,
and then entirely ceased.

"Our Indians descended from their tree, and called upon us to seize the
only possibility of yet saving ourselves, by instant flight, for that
the tigers had only gone round the height to seek another inlet into
the cave, with which they were, no doubt, acquainted. In the greatest
haste the stone was pushed aside, and we stepped forth from what we had
considered a living grave. We now heard once more the roaring of the
tigress, though at a distance, and, following the example of our
guides, we precipitately struck into a side path. From the number of
roots and branches of trees, with which the storm had strewed our way,
and the slipperiness of the road, our flight was slow and difficult.

"We had proceeded thus for about a quarter of an hour, when we found
that our way led along a rocky cliff, with innumerable fissures. We had
just entered upon it, when suddenly the Indians, who were before us,
uttered one of their piercing shrieks, and we immediately became aware
that the tigers were in pursuit of us. Urged by despair, we rushed
towards one of the breaks or gulfs in our way, over which was thrown a
bridge of reeds, that sprang up and down at every step, and could be
trod with safety by the light foot of the Indians alone. Deep in the
hollow below rushed an impetuous stream, and a thousand pointed and
jagged rocks threatened destruction on every side.

"Lincoln, my huntsman, and myself, passed over the chasm in safety; but
Wharton was still in the middle of the waving bridge, and endeavoring
to steady himself, when both the tigers were seen to issue from the
adjoining forest; and the moment they descried us, they bounded towards
us with dreadful roarings. Meanwhile, Wharton had nearly gained the
safe side of the gulf, and we were all clambering up the rocky cliff,
except Lincoln, who remained at the reedy bridge, to assist his friend
to step upon firm ground. Wharton, though the ferocious animals were
close upon him, never lost his courage or presence of mind. As soon as
he had gained the edge of the cliff, he knelt down, and, with his
sword, divided the fastenings by which the bridge was attached to the
rock.

"He expected that an effectual barrier would thus be put to the farther
progress of our pursuers; but he was mistaken; for he had scarcely
accomplished his task when the tigress, without a moment's pause,
rushed towards the chasm, and attempted to bound over it. It was a
fearful sight to see the mighty animal suspended for a moment in the
air, above the abyss; but the scene passed like a flash of lightning.
Her strength was not equal to the distance; she fell into the gulf,
and, before she reached the bottom, was torn into a thousand pieces by
the jagged points of the rocks.

"Her fate did not in the least dismay her companion. He followed her
with an immense spring, and reached the opposite side, but only with
his fore claws; and thus he clung to the edge of the precipice,
endeavoring to gain a footing. The Indians again uttered a wild shriek,
as if all hope had been lost.

"But Wharton, who was nearest the edge of the rock, advanced
courageously towards the tiger, and struck his sword into the animal's
breast. Enraged beyond all measure, the wild beast collected all his
strength, and, with a violent effort, fixing one of his hind legs upon
the cliff, he seized Wharton by the thigh. The heroic man still
preserved his fortitude. He grasped the trunk of a tree with his left
hand, to steady and support himself, while, with his right hand, he
wrenched and violently turned the sword, that was still in the breast
of the tiger. All this was the work of an instant. The Indians, Frank,
and myself, hastened to his assistance; but Lincoln, who was already at
his side, had seized Wharton's gun, which lay near upon the ground, and
struck so powerful a blow with the butt-end upon the head of the tiger,
that the animal, stunned and overpowered, let go his hold, and fell
back into the abyss."


THE AMERICAN PANTHER.

This animal, which belongs to North and South America, passes under the
various titles of _cougar_, _puma_, and _panther_. The latter is its
most common designation. It is about the size of the European panther,
but is of a uniform reddish-brown color. It was once common throughout
the United States, but it has retired from the more thickly-settled
portions to the remote forests of the country. It generally flies from
man, but occasions have frequently occurred in which persons have
fallen victims to its rage or rapacity.

_Fatal Sport._--Some years since, two hunters, accompanied by two dogs,
went out in quest of game near the Catskill Mountains. At the foot of a
large hill, they agreed to go round it in opposite directions, and,
when either discharged his rifle, the other was to hasten towards him
to aid in securing the game. Soon after parting, the report of a rifle
was heard by one of them, who, hastening towards the spot, after some
search, found nothing but the dog, dreadfully lacerated, and dead. He
now became much alarmed for the fate of his companion, and, while
anxiously looking around, was horror-struck by the harsh growl of a
cougar, which he perceived on a large limb of a tree, crouching upon
the body of his friend, and apparently meditating an attack on himself.
Instantly he levelled his rifle at the beast, and was so fortunate as
to wound it mortally, when it fell to the ground along with the body of
his slaughtered companion. His dog then rushed upon the wounded cougar,
which, with one blow of its paw, laid the poor animal dead by its side.
The surviving hunter now left the spot, and quickly returned, with
several other persons, when they found the lifeless cougar extended
near the dead bodies of the hunter and the faithful dogs.

_Terrible Revenge._--The following account is furnished by a
correspondent of the "Cabinet of Natural History:" "It was on as
beautiful an autumnal day as ever ushered in the Indian summer, that I
made an excursion after game among a group of mountains, or rather on a
link in the great chain of the Alleghany range, which runs in a
north-eastern direction in that part of Pennsylvania which bounds the
New York line.

"I had kept the summit of the mountains for several miles, without
success, for a breeze had arisen shortly after sunrise, which rattled
through the trees, and made it unfavorable for hunting on dry ground;
and indeed the only wild animal I saw was a bear, that was feeding on
another ridge across a deep valley, and entirely out of reach of my
rifle-shot. I therefore descended the mountain in an oblique direction,
towards the salt springs, which I soon reached, and, after finding
others had preceded me here, I left the spot for another mountain, on
which I intended to pass the remainder of the day, gradually working my
way home. This mountain was covered with chestnut-trees; and here it
was that I caught a glimpse of the bear from the other ridge, and found
he had disappeared but a short time previous to my arrival on this
mountain. I followed his track for three miles, for chestnuts lay in
abundance on the ground, and bears, like hogs, root up the leaves in
search of food beneath; and it no doubt had lingered about here eating
its meal until my near approach gave warning of its danger. This I
could discover, as, the leaves having been wet by the melted frost on
the top, a path could be traced where the bear, in running, had turned
the dried part of the leaves uppermost. I quickened my pace along the
mountainside and around the turn of the mountain, with the hopes of
surprising the bear; and, after a rapid chase for the distance above
mentioned, all proved fruitless, and I relinquished further pursuit.
Warm with this exercise, and somewhat fatigued, I descended the
mountain-side, and took my seat beside a stream of water which gently
washed the base of the mountain, and emptied itself into the head of
the waters of the Susquehannah.

"I had remained, sitting on a fallen tree, whose branches extended
considerably into the water, for, perhaps, an hour and a half, when, of
a sudden, I heard a rustling among the leaves on the mountain
immediately above my head, which, at first, was so distant that I
thought it merely an eddy in the wind, whirling the leaves from the
ground; but it increased so rapidly, and approached so near the spot
where I sat, that instinctively I seized my rifle, ready in a moment to
meet any emergency which might offer.

"That part of the mountain where I was seated was covered with laurel
and other bushes, and, owing to the density of this shrubbery, I could
not discover an object more than ten yards from me; this, as will
afterwards appear, afforded me protection; at any rate, it conduced to
my success. The noise among the leaves now became tremendous, and the
object approached so near, that I distinctly heard an unnatural
grunting noise, as if from some animal in great distress. At length, a
sudden plunge into the water, not more than twenty yards from me,
uncovered to my view a full-grown black bear, intent upon nothing but
its endeavors to press through the water and reach the opposite shore.
The water, on an average, was not more than two feet deep, which was
not sufficient for the animal to swim, and too deep to run through;
consequently, the eagerness with which the bear pressed through the
water created such a splashing noise as fairly echoed through the
hills. With scarcely a thought, I brought my rifle to my shoulder with
the intention of shooting; but, before I could sight it correctly, the
bear rushed behind a rock which shielded it from my view. This gave me
a momentary season for reflection; and, although I could have killed
the bear so soon as it had passed the rock, I determined to await the
result of such extraordinary conduct in this animal; for I was
wonder-struck at actions which were not only strange, but even
ludicrous,--there not appearing then any cause for them. The mystery,
however, was soon unravelled.

"The stream of water was not more than ten rods in width; and before
the bear was two thirds across it, I heard another rustling, on the
mountain-side, among the leaves, as if by jumps, and a second plunge
into the water convinced me that the bear had good cause for its
precipitation; for here, pressing hard at its heels, was a formidable
antagonist in an enormous panther, which pursued the bear with such
determined inveteracy and appalling growls, as made me shudder as with
a chill.

"The panther plunged into the water not more than eighteen or twenty
yards from me; and, had it been but one third of that distance, I feel
convinced I should have been unheeded by this animal, so intent was it
on the destruction of the bear. It must indeed be an extraordinary case
which will make a panther plunge into water, as it is a great
characteristic of the feline species always to avoid water, unless
driven to it either by necessity or desperation; but here nature was
set aside, and some powerful motive predominated in the passions of
this animal, which put all laws of instinct at defiance, and, unlike
the clumsy bustling of the bear through the water, the panther went
with bounds of ten feet at a time, and, ere the former reached the
opposite shore, the latter was midway of the stream. This was a moment
of thrilling interest; and that feeling so common to the human breast,
when the strong is combating with the weak, now took possession of
mine, and, espousing the cause of the weaker party, abstractedly from
every consideration which was in the wrong, I could not help wishing
safety to the bear and death to the panther. Under the impulse of these
feelings, I once more brought my rifle to my shoulder, with the
intention of shooting the panther through the heart; but, in spite of
myself, I shrank from the effort. Perhaps it was well I reserved my
fire; for, had I only wounded the animal, I might have been a victim to
its ferocity.

"So soon as the bear found there was no possibility of escape from an
issue with so dreadful an enemy, on reaching the opposite bank of the
stream, it shook the water from its hair like a dog, ran about fifteen
feet on the bank, and lay directly on its back in a defensive posture.
This it had scarcely done, when the panther reached the water's edge,
and then, with a yell of vengeance, it made one bound, and sprang, with
outstretched claws, and spitting like a cat, immediately on the bear,
which lay in terror on the ground, ready to receive its antagonist; but
the contest was soon at an end. Not more easily does the eagle rend in
sunder its terror-stricken prey, than did the enraged panther tear in
scattered fragments the helpless bear. It appeared but the work of a
moment, and that moment was one of unrelenting vengeance; for no sooner
did the panther alight on its victim, than, with the most ferocious
yells, it planted its hinder claws deep in the entrails of the bear,
and, by a few rips, tore its antagonist in pieces. Although the bear
was full grown, it must have been young, and deficient in energy; for
it was so overcome with dread as not to be able to make the least
resistance.

"Satisfied with glutting its vengeance, the panther turned from the
bear, and came directly to the water's edge to drink, and allay the
parching thirst created by so great excitement; after which, it looked
down and then up the stream, as though it sought a place to cross, that
it might avoid the water; then, as if satisfied with revenge, and
enjoying its victory, stood twisting and curling its tail like a cat,
and then commenced licking itself dry.

"The animal was now within thirty-five yards of me; and seeing no
prospect of its recrossing the stream, I took rest for my rifle on a
projecting limb of the tree on which I still sat, and fired directly at
the panther's heart. The moment I discharged my rifle, the monster made
a spring about six feet perpendicular, with a tremendous growl, which
reverberated among the rocks; fell in the same spot whence it sprang,
with its legs extended; and lay in this situation, half crouched,
rocking from side to side, as if in the dizziness of approaching death.
I saw plainly that my fire was fatal; but I had too much experience to
approach this enemy until I could no longer discover signs of life. I
therefore reloaded my rifle, and with a second shot I pierced
immediately behind the ear. Its head then dropped between its paws, and
all was quiet.

"On examining the panther, no marks of violence appeared, except where
my rifle balls had passed completely through, within a foot of each
other: but on turning the animal on its back, I discovered it to be a
female, and a mother, who, by the enlargement of her teats, had
evidently been suckling her young. From this circumstance, I supposed
the bear had made inroads on her lair, and probably had destroyed her
kittens. I was the more convinced of this from the fact, that I never
knew, from my own experience, nor could I learn from the oldest hunters
of my acquaintance, an instance wherein a bear and a panther engaged in
combat; and again, no circumstance but the above would be sufficient to
awaken that vindictive perseverance, in the passions of a panther,
which would lead to the annihilation of so formidable an animal as a
bear."


THE CAT.

This animal, which is chiefly known in a domestic state, was originally
wild, and is still found in that condition in the forests of Europe and
Asia. It was not a native of the American continent, but was brought
hither by the European settlers. The quadruped found in our woods, and
sometimes called by the name of _wild-cat_, is a lynx. In a domestic
state, the savage habits of the cat are exchanged for a soft, gentle,
and confiding character, which renders her a favorite around every
fireside. Nor is puss to be admired only for these winning qualities,
and her utility as a mouser. She possesses considerable genius, and the
memoirs of her race are scarcely less remarkable than those of her
natural rival, the dog.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--The following story is furnished by a
correspondent of the Penny Magazine: "I was once on a visit to a friend
in the country, who had a favorite cat and dog, who lived together on
the best possible terms, eating from the same plate and sleeping on the
same rug. Puss had a young family, and Pincher was in the habit of
making a daily visit to the kittens, whose nursery was at the top of
the house. One morning, there was a tremendous storm of thunder and
lightning. Pincher was in the drawing-room, and puss was attending to
her family in the garret. Pincher seemed annoyed by the vivid flashes
of lightning; and, just as he had crept nearer to my feet, some one
entered the room followed by puss, who walked in with a disturbed air,
and mewing with all her might. She came to Pincher, rubbed her face
against his cheek, touched him gently with her paw, walked to the door,
stopped, looked back, and mewed,--all of which said, as plainly as
words could have done, 'Come with me, Pincher;' but the dog was too
much alarmed himself to give any consolation to her, and took no notice
of the invitation.

"The cat then returned, and renewed her application, with increased
energy; but the dog was immovable, though it was evident that he
understood her meaning, for he turned away his head with a
half-conscious look, and crept closer to me; and puss soon left the
room. Not long after this, the mewing became so piteous, that I could
no longer resist going to see what was the matter. I met the cat at the
top of the stairs, close by the door of my chamber. She ran to me,
rubbed herself against me, and then went into the room, and crept under
the wardrobe. I then heard two voices, and discovered that she had
brought down one of her kittens, and lodged it there for safety; but
her fears and cares being so divided between the kitten above and this
little one below, I suppose she wanted Pincher to watch by this one,
while she went for the other; for, having confided it to my protection,
she hastened up stairs. Not, however, wishing to have charge of the
young family, I followed her up, taking the kitten with me, placed it
beside her, and moved the little bed farther from the window, through
which the lightning flashed so vividly as to alarm poor puss for the
safety of her progeny. I then remained in the garret till the storm had
passed away.

"On the following morning, much to my surprise, I found puss waiting
for me at the door of my apartment. She accompanied me down to
breakfast, sat by me, and caressed me in every possible way. She had
always been in the habit of going down to breakfast with the lady of
the house; but on this morning she had resisted all her coaxing to
leave my door, and would not move a step till I had made my appearance.
She had never done this before, and never did it again. She had shown
her gratitude to me for the care of her little ones, and her duty was
done."

The editor of the "Edinburgh Evening Courant" gives us the following
extraordinary story: "A country gentleman of our acquaintance, who is
neither a friend to thieves nor poachers, has at this moment, in his
household, a favorite cat, whose honesty, he is sorry to say, there is
but too much reason to call in question. The animal, however, is far
from being selfish in her principles; for her acceptable gleanings she
regularly shares among the children of the family in which her lot is
cast. It is the habit of this grimalkin to leave the kitchen or parlor,
as often as hunger and an opportunity may occur, and wend her way to a
certain pastrycook's shop, where, the better to conceal her purpose,
she endeavors slyly to ingratiate herself into favor with the mistress
of the house. As soon as the shopkeeper's attention becomes engrossed
in business, or otherwise, puss contrives to pilfer a small pie or tart
from the shelves on which they are placed, speedily afterwards making
the best of her way home with her booty.

"She then carefully delivers her prize to some of the little ones in
the nursery. A division of the stolen property quickly takes place; and
here it is singularly amusing to observe the _sleekit_ animal, not the
least conspicuous among the numerous group, thankfully munching her
share of the illegal traffic. We may add, that the pastrycook is by no
means disposed to institute a legal process against poor Mrs. Puss, as
the children of the gentleman to whom we allude are honest enough to
acknowledge their fourfooted playmate's failings to papa, who willingly
compensates any damage the shopkeeper may sustain from the petty
depredations of the would-be philanthropic cat."

In the month of July, 1801, a woman was murdered in Paris. A
magistrate, accompanied by a physician, went to the place where the
murder had been committed, to examine the body. It was lying upon the
floor, and a greyhound, who was standing by the corpse, licked it from
time to time, and howled mournfully. When the gentlemen entered the
apartment, he ran to them without barking, and then returned, with a
melancholy mien, to the body of his murdered mistress. Upon a chest in
a corner of the room a cat sat motionless, with eyes, expressive of
furious indignation, steadfastly fixed upon the body. Many persons now
entered the apartment; but neither the appearance of such a crowd of
strangers, nor the confusion that prevailed in the place, could make
her change her position.

In the mean time, some persons were apprehended on suspicion of being
the murderers, and it was resolved to lead them into the apartment.
Before the cat got sight of them, when she only heard their footsteps
approaching, her eyes flashed with increased fury, her hair stood
erect, and so soon as she saw them enter the apartment, she sprang
towards them with expressions of the most violent rage, but did not
venture to attack them, being probably afraid of the numbers that
followed. Having turned several times towards them with a peculiar
ferocity of aspect, she crept into a corner, with a mien indicative of
the deepest melancholy. This behavior of the cat astonished every one
present. The effect which it produced upon the murderers was such as
almost amounted to an acknowledgment of their guilt. Nor did this
remain long doubtful, for a train of accessory circumstances was soon
discovered, which proved it to a complete conviction.

A cat, which had a numerous litter of kittens, one summer day in
spring, encouraged her little ones to frolic in the vernal beams of the
noon, about the stable door, where she dwelt. While she was joining
them in a thousand tricks and gambols, a large hawk, who was sailing
above the barn-yard, in a moment darted upon one of the kittens, and
would have as quickly borne it off, but for the courageous mother, who,
seeing the danger of her offspring, sprang on the common enemy, who, to
defend itself, let fall the prize. The battle presently became severe
to both parties. The hawk, by the power of his wings, the sharpness of
his talons, and the strength of his beak, had for a while the
advantage, cruelly lacerating the poor cat, and actually deprived her
of one eye in the conflict; but puss, no way daunted at the accident,
strove, with all her cunning and agility, for her kittens, till she had
broken the wing of her adversary. In this state, she got him more
within the power of her claws, and, availing herself of this advantage,
by an instantaneous exertion she laid the hawk motionless beneath her
feet; and, as if exulting in the victory, tore the head off the
vanquished tyrant. This accomplished, disregarding the loss of her eye,
she ran to the bleeding kitten, licked the wounds made by the hawk's
talons in its tender sides, and purred whilst she caressed her
liberated offspring.

In the summer of 1792, a gentleman who lived in the neighborhood of
Portsmouth, England, had a cat, which kittened four or five days after
a hen had brought out a brood of chickens. As he did not wish to keep
more than one cat at a time, the kittens were all drowned, and the same
day the cat and one chicken were missing. Diligent search was
immediately made in every place that could be thought of, both in and
out of the house, to no purpose; it was then concluded that some
mischance had befallen both. Four days afterwards, however, the
servant, having occasion to go into an unfrequented part of the cellar,
discovered, to his great astonishment, the cat lying in one corner,
with the chicken hugged close to her body, and one paw laid over it, as
if to preserve it from injury. The cat and adopted chicken were brought
into a closet in the kitchen, where they continued some days, the cat
treating the chicken in every respect as a kitten. Whenever the chicken
left the cat to eat, she appeared very uneasy; but, on its return, she
received it with the affection of a mother, pressed it to her body,
purred, and seemed perfectly happy. If the chicken was carried to the
hen, it immediately returned to the cat. The chicken was by some
accident killed, and the cat would not eat for several days afterwards,
being inconsolable for its loss.

"I had," says M. Wenzel, "a cat and dog which became so attached to
each other, that they would never willingly be asunder. Whenever the
dog got any choice morsel of food, he was sure to divide it with his
whiskered friend. They always ate sociably out of one plate, slept in
the same bed, and daily walked out together. Wishing to put this
apparently sincere friendship to the proof, I, one day, took the cat by
herself into my room, while I had the dog guarded in another apartment.
I entertained the cat in a most sumptuous manner, being desirous to see
what sort of a meal she would make without her friend, who had hitherto
been her constant table companion. The cat enjoyed the treat with great
glee, and seemed to have entirely forgotten the dog. I had had a
partridge for dinner, half of which I intended to keep for supper. My
wife covered it with a plate, and put it into a cupboard, the door of
which she did not lock. The cat left the room, and I walked out upon
business. My wife, meanwhile, sat at work in an adjoining apartment.

"When I returned home, she related to me the following circumstances:
The cat, having hastily left the dining-room, went to the dog, and
mewed uncommonly loud, and in different tones of voice, which the dog,
from time to time, answered with a short bark. They then went both to
the door of the room where the cat had dined, and waited till it was
opened. One of my children opened the door, and immediately the two
friends entered the apartment. The mewing of the cat excited my wife's
attention. She rose from her seat, and stepped softly up to the door,
which stood ajar, to observe what was going on. The cat led the dog to
the cupboard which contained the partridge, pushed off the plate which
covered it, and, taking out my intended supper, laid it before her
canine friend, who devoured it greedily. Probably the cat, by her
mewing, had given the dog to understand what an excellent meal she had
made, and how sorry she was that he had not participated in it; but, at
the same time, had given him to understand that something was left for
him in the cupboard, and persuaded him to follow her thither. Since
that time I have paid particular attention to these animals, and am
perfectly convinced that they communicate to each other whatever seems
interesting to either."

A cat belonging to an elderly lady in Bath, England, was so attached to
her mistress, that she would pass the night in her bedchamber, which
was four stories high. Outside of the window was the parapet wall, on
which the lady often strewed crumbs for the sparrows that came to
partake of them. The lady always sleeping with her window open, the cat
would pounce upon the birds, and kill them. One morning, giving a
"longing, lingering look" at the top of the wall, and seeing it free
from crumbs, she was at a loss for an expedient to decoy the feathered
tribe, when, reconnoitring, she discovered a small bunch of wheat
suspended in the room, which she sprang at, and succeeded in getting
down. She then carried it to the favorite resort of the sparrows, and
actually threshed the corn out, by beating it on the wall, then hiding
herself. After a while, the birds came, and she resumed her favorite
sport of killing the dupes of her sagacity.

A cat belonging to a gentleman of Sheffield, England, carried her
notions of beauty so far, that she would not condescend to nourish and
protect her own offspring, if they happened to be tinted with colors
different from what adorned her own figure, which was what is usually
denominated tortoise-shell. She happened, on one occasion only, to
produce one kitten, of a jet black. The cruel mother drew the
unfortunate little creature out of the bed in which it lay, and,
refusing to give it suck, it perished on the cold ground. Some time
after, she gave birth to three more, one of which had the misfortune
not to be clad in the same colors as the mother. It was therefore
ousted by the unnatural parent; and, although again and again replaced
in its bed, it was as frequently turned out again. The owner of the
cat, finding it useless to persist in what puss had determined should
not be, in humanity consigned the kitten to a watery grave,--the victim
of a parent's pride and cruelty.

"I once saw," says De la Croix, "a lecturer upon experimental
philosophy place a cat under the glass receiver of an air-pump, for the
purpose of demonstrating that very certain fact, that life cannot be
supported without air and respiration. The lecturer had already made
several strokes with the piston, in order to exhaust the receiver of
its air, when the animal, who began to feel herself very uncomfortable
in the rarefied atmosphere, was fortunate enough to discover the source
from which her uneasiness proceeded. She placed her paw upon the hole
through which the air escaped, and thus prevented any more from passing
out of the receiver. All the exertions of the philosopher were now
unavailing: in vain he drew the piston; the cat's paw effectually
prevented its operation. Hoping to effect his purpose, he let air again
into the receiver, which as soon as the cat perceived, she withdrew her
paw from the aperture; but whenever he attempted to exhaust the
receiver, she applied her paw as before. All the spectators clapped
their hands in admiration of the wonderful sagacity of the animal, and
the lecturer found himself under the necessity of liberating her, and
substituting in her place another, that possessed less penetration, and
enabled him to exhibit the cruel experiment."

A lady at Potsdam, in Prussia, tells an anecdote of one of her
children, who, when about six years old, got a splinter of wood into
her foot, early one morning, and, sitting down on the floor of the
chamber, cried most vehemently. Her elder sister, asleep in the same
apartment, was in the act of getting up to inquire the cause of her
sister's tears, when she observed the cat, who was a favorite playmate
of the children, and of a gentle and peaceable disposition, leave her
seat under the stove, go up to the crying girl, and, with one of her
paws, give her so smart a blow upon the cheek as to draw blood; and
with the utmost gravity resume her seat under the stove, and relapse
into slumber. As she was otherwise so harmless, the conclusion was,
that she intended this as a chastisement for being disturbed, in hopes
that she might enjoy her morning nap without interruption.

A lady residing in Glasgow had a handsome cat sent her from Edinburgh.
It was conveyed to her in a close basket, and in a carriage. She was
carefully watched for two months; but having produced a pair of young
ones, at that time she was left to her own discretion, which she very
soon employed in disappearing with both her kittens. The lady at
Glasgow wrote to her friend in Edinburgh, deploring her loss, and the
cat was supposed to have strayed away.

About a fortnight, however, after her disappearance from Glasgow, her
well-known mew was heard at the street door of her old mistress in
Edinburgh, and there she was with both her kittens! they in the best
condition--but she very thin. It is clear that she could only carry one
kitten at a time. The distance from Edinburgh to Glasgow being forty
miles, she must have travelled one hundred and twenty miles at least!
Her prudence must likewise have suggested the necessity of journeying
in the night, with many other precautions for the safety of her young.




ORDER IV.

AMPHIBIA,

AMPHIBIOUS ANIMALS.


This order embraces several species of the seal kind, which are found
in all seas, but chiefly in those of the polar regions. Their structure
is admirably adapted to their mode of life; the nostrils and ears both
closing when the animal dives. Its hind feet alone are used for
swimming. Its movements on land are slow and painful, dragging itself
along like a reptile.


THE SEAL.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--Mr. Brown furnishes us with the following
account: About twenty-five years ago, a seal was so completely
domesticated that it remained with a gentleman, whose residence was but
a short distance from the sea, without attempting to escape. It knew
all the inmates of the family, and would come to its master when he
called it by name. It was usually kept in the stable, but was sometimes
permitted to enter the kitchen, where it seemed to take great delight
in reposing before the fire. It was taken to the sea every day, and
allowed to fish for itself, in which it was very dexterous; but when
unsuccessful, fish was bought for it. When tired of swimming, it came
up to the boat, holding up its head to be taken in.

A farmer in Fifeshire, Scotland, while looking for crabs and lobsters,
among the rocks, caught a young seal about two feet and a half long,
and carried it home. He fed it with pottage and milk, which it ate with
avidity. He kept it for three days, feeding it on this meal, when, his
wife being tired of it, he took it away, and restored it to its native
element. He was accompanied by some of his neighbors. On reaching the
shore, it was thrown into the sea; but, instead of making its escape,
as one would have expected, it returned to the men. The tallest of them
waded to a considerable distance into the sea, and, after throwing it
as far as he was able, speedily got behind a rock, and concealed
himself; but the affectionate animal soon discovered his hiding-place,
and crept close up to his feet. The farmer, moved by its attachment,
took it home again, and kept it for some time.

Seals are said to be delighted with music. Mr. Laing, in his account of
a voyage to Spitzbergen, mentions that the son of the master of the
vessel in which he sailed, who was fond of playing on the violin, never
failed to have a numerous auditory, when in the seas frequented by
seals; and they have been seen to follow a ship for miles when any
person was playing on the deck.

It is a common practice in Cornwall, England, for persons, when in
pursuit of seals, as soon as the animal has elevated its head above
water, to halloo to it till they can approach within gunshot, as it
will listen to the sound for several minutes.

The bottlenose seal is in general very inactive, but when irritated, is
exceedingly revengeful. A sailor, who had killed a young one, was in
the act of skinning it, when its mother approached him unperceived,
and, seizing him in her mouth, bit him so dreadfully that he died of
the wound in three days.


THE WALRUS.

This animal is a native of the polar regions, and in many of its habits
resembles the seal. It lives in troops, which visit the shore, or
extensive fields of ice, as a sort of home. Its food consists of a kind
of seaweed, which it tears up by means of its tusks. It is very much
hunted for its skin and its oil.

_Anecdote._--In the year 1766, a vessel which had gone to the north
seas, to trade with the Esquimaux, had a boat out with a party of the
crew. A number of walruses attacked them, and, notwithstanding every
effort to keep them at bay, a small one contrived to get over the stern
of the boat, looked at the men for some time, and then plunged into the
water to rejoin his companions. Immediately after, another one, of
enormous bulk, made the same attempt to get over the bow, which, had he
succeeded, would have upset the boat; but, after trying every method in
vain to keep him off, the boatswain discharged the contents of a gun
loaded with goose-shot into the animal's mouth, which killed him; he
immediately disappeared, and was followed by the whole herd. Seeing
what had happened to their companion, the enraged animals soon followed
the boat; but it luckily reached the ship, and all hands had got on
board before they came up; otherwise, some serious mischief would,
doubtless, have befallen the boat's crew.




ORDER V.

MARSUPIALA,

POUCHED ANIMALS.


This order includes animals with a pouch under the belly, where the
young are in some cases produced and nursed.


THE OPOSSUM.

This curious animal belongs exclusively to America, and is familiarly
known in the milder parts of the United States. It is about the size of
a cat, but its legs are short, and its body broad and flat. The females
are remarkable for having an abdominal pouch, to which the young ones
retreat in time of danger. The hunting of this animal is the favorite
sport in some of the Middle States. Parties go out in the moonlight
evenings of autumn, attended by dogs. These trace the opossum to some
tree, between the branches of which he hides himself from the view of
the hunter. The latter shakes him down, and the quadruped, rolling
himself into a ball, pretends to be dead. If not immediately seized, he
uncoils himself, and attempts to steal away. The various artifices it
adopts for escape have given rise to the proverb of "playing 'possum."


THE KANGAROO.

The following description of this animal, which is peculiar to New
Holland, is taken from Dawson's "Present State of Australia:"--

"The country on our right consisted of high and poor, stony hills,
thickly timbered; that on the left, on the opposite side of the river,
was a rich and thinly-timbered country. A low and fertile flat meadow
there skirted the river; and, at the extremity of the flat, hills
gradually arose with a gentle slope, covered with verdure, upon which
an immense herd of kangaroos were feeding. I crossed over with Maty
Bill and a brace of dogs, leaving the party to proceed on their route.
The moment we had crossed, the kangaroos moved off. It is extremely
curious to see the manner in which a large herd of these animals jump
before you. It has often been asserted that they make use of their
tails to spring from you when they are pursued. This is not correct.
Their tails never touch the ground when they move, except when they are
on their feed, or at play; and the faster they run or jump, the higher
they carry them.

"The male kangaroos were called, by the natives, old men, 'wool man;'
and the females, young ladies, 'young liddy.' The males are not so
swift as the females; and the natives, in wet seasons, occasionally run
the former down when very large, their weight causing them to sink in
the wet ground, and thus to become tired. They frequently, however,
make up for this disadvantage by fierceness and cunning, when attacked
either by men or dogs; and it is exceedingly difficult for a brace of
the best dogs to kill a 'corbon wool man.' When they can, they will hug
a dog or a man as a bear would do; and as they are armed with long,
sharp claws, they not unfrequently let a dog's entrails out, or
otherwise lacerate him in the most dreadful manner, sitting all the
while on their haunches, hugging and scratching with determined fury.

"The kind of dog used for coursing the kangaroo is, generally, a cross
between the greyhound and the mastiff, or sheep-dog; but, in a climate
like New South Wales, they have, to use the common phrase, too much
lumber about them. The true-bred greyhound is the most useful dog. He
has more wind; he ascends the hills with more ease, and runs double the
number of courses in a day. He has more bottom in running; and, if he
has less ferocity when he comes up with an 'old man,' so much the
better, as he exposes himself the less, and lives to afford sport
another day. The strongest and most courageous dog can seldom conquer a
'wool man' alone, and not one in fifty will face him fairly; the dog
who has the temerity is certain to be disabled, if not killed.

"The herd of kangaroos we had thus come upon was too numerous to allow
of the dogs' being let loose; but, as the day's walk was drawing to a
close, I had given Maty Bill liberty to catch another kangaroo, if we
should fall in with a single one. After moving up to the foot of the
hill, about a quarter of a mile from the river, my sable companion eyed
a 'corbon wool man,' as he called it, quietly feeding at a distance, on
the slope of the hill. His eyes sparkled; he was all agitation; and he
called out, 'Massa, massa! You tee! you tee! wool man! wool man! corbon
wool man!' and off he ran with his dogs, till he was within a fair
distance, when he slipped their collars. I was at this time on foot,
and the whole of them, therefore, were soon out of my sight. They had
turned round the bottom of the hill, in the direction of the river;
and, as I was following them down, I heard the dogs at bay, and the
shrill call of 'coo-oo-oo,' from my companion, to direct me to the
spot; and, on turning the corner of the hill, I met him, running, and
calling as fast and as loud as he could. As soon as he saw me, he
stopped, and called out, 'Massa, massa! Make haste! Dingo (dogs) have
got him in ribber. Many corbon wool man, all the same like it bullock.'

"All this was said in a breath; and as I could not pretend to run with
him, I desired him to go as fast as he could, and help the dogs, till I
should arrive. When I got up to the spot, he was in the middle of the
river, with about two feet depth of water, while the kangaroo, sitting
upright on its haunches, was keeping both him and the dogs at a
respectful distance, and had laid bare the windpipe of one of the dogs.
Billy's waddy was too short to reach him without coming to close
quarters, and he knew better than to do that; at length he got behind
him, and, with a blow on the head, he despatched him. No huntsman could
have shown more ardor in the pursuit, or more pleasure at the death of
a fox, than did poor Maty Bill upon this occasion. The kangaroo was so
heavy, weighing about a hundred and fifty pounds, that he could not
lift him out of the water, and we were obliged to leave him till our
party arrived on the opposite side."




ORDER VI.

RODENTIA,

GNAWING ANIMALS.


This order embraces a considerable number of small animals, most of
which possess a gentle and harmless character. They live upon vegetable
matter, and a large proportion use their fore-paws in the manner of
hands.


THE SQUIRREL.

Of this lively, pleasing genus, there is a considerable variety,
especially in the temperate zone. They are very agile, and use their
paws with much grace and dexterity, in handling their food.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--A squirrel, seated in a nut-tree, was once
observed to weigh a nut in each paw, to discover by weight which was
good; the light ones he invariably dropped, thus making a heap of them
at the foot of the tree. On examining this heap, it was found to
consist entirely of bad nuts.

A gentleman near Edinburgh took a common squirrel from a nest, which he
reared, and rendered extremely docile. It was kept in a box, nailed
against the wall, which was wired in front, and had a small aperture at
the end, to allow the animal to enter. To the end of the box was
suspended a rope, which touched the ground, by which the animal
descended from and ascended to its domicile at pleasure. It became
extremely playful, and was familiar with every one of the family, but
devotedly attached to its master, who generally carried it about with
him in his coat-pocket.

The little creature used to watch all its master's movements. Whenever
it saw him preparing to go out, it ran up his legs, and entered his
pocket, from whence it would peep out at passengers, as he walked along
the streets--never venturing, however, to go out. But no sooner did he
reach the outskirts of the city, than the squirrel leaped to the
ground, ran along the road, ascended the tops of trees and hedges with
the quickness of lightning, and nibbled at the leaves and bark; and, if
he walked on, it would descend, scamper after him, and again enter his
pocket. In this manner, it would amuse itself during a walk of miles,
which its master frequently indulged in.

It was taught to catch food, roots, and acorns, with its fore-paws,
which it accomplished with great neatness. It was also instructed to
leap over a stick, held out to it, and perform various other little
tricks.

A lady in England had a squirrel which she taught to crack nuts for
her, and hand her the kernels with his paws. She also instructed him to
count money; and he was so attentive that, whenever he found a coin on
the ground, he took it up and carried it to her. So attached was this
little creature to its mistress, that, whenever she was confined to her
bed, from indisposition, he lay still in his cage, without moving,
although, at other times, he was full of life and vivacity.

Some years ago, as a Swede was constructing a mill dike, late in the
autumn, he accidentally came upon an abode of the ground or striped
squirrel. He traced it to some distance, and found a gallery on one
side, like a branch, diverging from the main stem, nearly two feet
long; at its farther end was a quantity of fine white oak acorns; he
soon after discovered another gallery, which contained a store of corn;
a third was filled with walnuts; while a fourth contained three quarts
of fine chestnuts;--all of which the provident little animal had stored
up for the winter.

A correspondent of the "Penny Magazine" gives us the following account:
"Although apparently not adapted to swimming, yet both gray and black
squirrels venture across lakes that are one or two miles wide. In these
adventurous exploits, they generally take advantage of a favorable
breeze, elevating their tails, which act like sails, thus rendering
their passage quicker and less laborious. I have frequently noticed
black squirrels crossing Niagara River, and I always remarked that they
swam across when the morning first began to dawn. On reaching the
opposite shore, they appeared greatly fatigued, and, if unmolested,
generally took a long rest preparatory to their setting off for the
woods."

The black and gray squirrels of the western country frequently
emigrate, in immense numbers, from one district to another. They may be
often seen swimming across the Ohio; and it is not uncommon for persons
to stand upon the banks, and kill them as they come to the shore, being
then in an exhausted state.


THE MOUSE.

Of this genus there are many species, including not only the domestic
mouse, but several other kinds, as well as the various kinds of rats.
The common mouse was not originally a native of this country, but was
introduced from Europe. The same may be said of the common rat. These
animals are spread over nearly the whole world, seeming always to be
the attendants upon man.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--"On a rainy evening," says Dr. Archer, "as
I was alone in my chamber in the town of Norfolk, I took up my flute
and commenced playing. In a few moments, my attention was directed to
a mouse that I saw creeping from a hole, and advancing to a chair in
which I was sitting. I ceased playing, and it ran precipitately back to
its hole. I began again to play, and was much surprised to see it
reappear, and take its old position. It couched upon the floor, shut
its eyes, and appeared in ecstasy, being differently affected by the
music I played, as it varied from slow and plaintive to lively and
animated."

A gentleman who was on board a British man of war, in the year 1817,
states that, as he and some officers were seated by the fire, one of
them began to play a plaintive air on the violin. He had scarcely
performed ten minutes, when a mouse, apparently frantic, made its
appearance in the centre of the floor. The strange gestures of the
little animal strongly excited the attention of the officers, who, with
one consent, resolved to suffer it to continue its singular actions
unmolested. Its exertions now appeared to be greater every moment; it
shook its head, leaped about the table, and exhibited signs of the most
ecstatic delight. After performing actions that an animal so diminutive
would at first sight seem incapable of, the little creature suddenly
ceased to move, fell down, and expired, without evincing any symptoms
of pain.

An officer confined to the Bastille, at Paris, begged to be allowed to
play on his lute, to soften his confinement by its harmonies. Shortly
afterwards, when playing on the instrument, he was much astonished to
see a number of mice come frisking out of their holes, and many spiders
descending from their webs, and congregating round him while he
continued the music. Whenever he ceased, they dispersed; whenever he
played again, they reappeared. He soon had a numerous audience,
amounting to about a hundred mice and spiders.

Mr. Olafsen gives an account of the remarkable instinct of the Iceland
mouse. In a country where berries are but thinly dispersed, these
little animals are obliged to cross rivers to make their distant
forages. In their return with the booty to their magazines, they are
obliged to repass the stream. "The party, which consists of from six to
ten, select a flat piece of dried cow-dung, on which they place the
berries on a heap in the middle; then, by their united force, they
bring it to the water's edge, and, after launching it, embark and place
themselves round the heap, with their heads joined over it and their
backs to the water, their tails pendent in the stream, serving the
purpose of rudders." Remarkable as this story is, the truth of it is
confirmed by many people who have watched the arrangements of the tiny
navigators.


THE DORMOUSE.

Mr. Mangili, an Italian naturalist, made some curious experiments upon
the _dormouse_. He kept one in the cupboard in his study. When the
thermometer was 8° above the freezing point, the little animal curled
himself up among a heap of papers, and went to sleep. It was
ascertained that the animal breathed, and suspended his respiration, at
regular intervals, sometimes every four minutes. Within ten days from
his beginning to sleep, the dormouse awoke, and ate a little. He then
went to sleep again, and continued through the winter to sleep some
days and then to awaken; but as the weather became colder, the
intervals of perfect repose, when no breathing could be perceived, were
much longer--sometimes more than twenty minutes.


THE RAT.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--There was, in the year 1827, in a
farm-house in England, a remarkable instance, not only of docility, but
of usefulness, in a rat. It first devoured the mice which were caught
in traps, and was afterwards seen to catch others as they ventured from
their holes; till, at length, the whole house was cleared of these
animals. From the services it rendered, the family kindly protected the
rat, and it used to gambol about the house, and play with the children,
without the least fear. It sometimes disappeared for a week or ten days
at a time, but regularly returned to its abode.

During a dreadful storm in England, in 1829, a singular instance
occurred of sagacity in a rat. The River Tyne was much swollen by the
water, and numbers of people had assembled to gaze on the masses of hay
it swept along in its irresistible course. A swan was at last observed,
sometimes struggling for the land, at other times sailing majestically
along with the torrent. When it drew near, a black spot was seen on its
snowy plumage, and the spectators were greatly pleased to find that
this was a live rat. It is probable that it had been borne from its
domicile in some hayrick, and, observing the swan, had made for it as
an ark of safety, in the hope of prolonging its life. When the swan at
length reached the land, the rat leaped from his back, and scampered
away, amid the shouts of the spectators.

A surgeon's mate on board a ship, in 1757, relates that, while lying
one evening awake in his berth, he saw a rat come into the room, and,
after surveying the place attentively, retreat with the utmost caution
and silence. It soon returned, leading by the ear another rat, which it
left at a small distance from the hole by which they entered. A third
rat then joined them. The two then searched about, and picked up all
the small scraps of biscuit; these they carried to the second rat,
which seemed blind, and remained on the spot where they had left it,
nibbling such fare as was brought to it by its kind providers, whom the
mate supposed were its offspring.

A steward of a ship infested with rats used to play some lively airs on
a flute after he had baited his traps and placed them near the
rat-holes. The music attracted the rats, who entered the traps
unconscious of that danger which, without that allurement, they would
have instinctively avoided. In this manner the steward caught fifteen
or twenty rats in three hours.


THE BEAVER.

There is but one species of this animal, which is found in the
temperate regions of both continents. It spends a great part of its
time in the water, where it constructs dams and builds huts of the
branches of trees. It gnaws these asunder with wonderful dexterity,
frequently cutting off a branch, the size of a walking-stick, with one
effort. They live in families composed of from two to ten.

_A tame Beaver._--Major Roderfort, of New York, had a tame beaver,
which he kept in his house upwards of half a year, and allowed to run
about like a dog. The cat belonging to the house had kittens, and she
took possession of the beaver's bed, which he did not attempt to
prevent. When the cat went out, the beaver would take one of the
kittens between his paws, and hold it close to his breast to warm it,
and treated it with much affection. Whenever the cat returned, he
restored her the kitten.

_Affection of the Beaver._--Two young beavers were taken alive some
years ago, and carried to a factory near Hudson's Bay, where they grew
very fast. One of them being accidentally killed, the survivor began to
moan, abstained from food, and finally died in grief for the loss of
its companion.

_A tame Beaver in the Zoological Gardens of London._--"This animal
arrived in England, in the winter of 1825, very young, being small and
woolly, and without the covering of long hair which marks the adult
beaver. It was the sole survivor of five or six, which were shipped at
the same time, and was in a very pitiable condition. Good treatment
soon made it familiar. When called by its name, 'Binny,' it generally
answered with a little cry, and came to its owner. The hearth-rug was
its favorite haunt, upon which it would lie stretched out, sometimes on
its back, and sometimes flat on its belly, but always near its master.
The building instinct showed itself immediately after it was let out of
its cage, and materials were placed in its way,--and this before it had
been a week in its new quarters. Its strength, even before it was half
grown, was great. It would drag along a large sweeping-brush, or a
warming-pan, grasping the handle with its teeth, so that the load came
over its shoulder; it then advanced in an oblique direction, till it
arrived at the point where it wished to place it. The long and large
materials were always taken first; two of the longest were generally
laid crosswise, with one of the ends of each touching the wall, and the
other ends projecting out into the room. The area formed by the crossed
brushes and the wall, he would fill up with hand-brushes, rush-baskets,
books, boots, sticks, cloths, dried turf, or any thing portable. As the
work grew high, he supported himself on his tail, which propped him up
admirably; and he would often, after laying on one of his building
materials, sit up over against it, apparently to consider his work, or,
as the country people say, 'judge it.' This pause was sometimes
followed by changing the position of the material 'judged,' and
sometimes it was left in its place.

"After he had piled up his materials in one part of the room,--for he
generally chose the same place,--he proceeded to wall up the space
between the feet of a chest of drawers, which stood at a little
distance from it, high enough on its legs to make the bottom a roof for
him, using for this purpose dried turf and sticks, which he laid very
even, and filling up the interstices with bits of coal, hay, cloth, or
any thing he could pick up. This last place he seemed to appropriate
for his dwelling; the former work seemed to be intended for a dam. When
he had walled up the space between the feet of the chest of drawers, he
proceeded to carry in sticks, clothes, hay, cotton, and to make a nest;
and, when he had done, he would sit up under the drawers, and comb
himself with the nails of his hind-feet. In this operation, that which
appeared at first to be a malformation was shown to be a beautiful
adaptation to the necessities of the animal. The huge webbed hind-feet
often turn in, so as to give the appearance of deformities; but, if the
toes were straight, instead of being incurved, the animal could not use
them for the purpose of keeping its fur in order, and cleansing it from
dirt and moisture. Binny generally carried small and light articles
between his right fore-leg and his chin, walking on the other three
legs; and large masses, which he could not grasp readily with his
teeth, he pushed forwards, leaning against them with his right fore-paw
and his chin. He never carried any thing on his tail, which he liked to
dip in water, but he was not fond of plunging in his whole body. If his
tail was kept moist, he never cared to drink; but if it was kept dry,
it became hot, and the animal appeared distressed, and would drink a
great deal. It is not impossible that the tail may have the power of
absorbing water, like the skin of frogs; though it must be owned that
the scaly integument which invests that member has not much of the
character which generally belongs to absorbing surfaces. Bread, and
bread and milk, and sugar, formed the principal part of Binny's food;
but he was very fond of succulent fruits and roots. He was a most
entertaining creature; and some highly comic scenes occurred between
the worthy, but slow, beaver, and a light and airy macauco, that was
kept in the same apartment."


THE PORCUPINE.

Of this animal there are several species. The common porcupine of
Europe is about two feet long, and covered with long spines or quills.
In defending itself, it lies on one side, and rolls over upon its
enemy. The quills of the American porcupine are used by the Indians in
ornamenting their dress.

_Curious Playmates._--We are told that Sir Ashton Lever had a tame
porcupine, a domesticated hunting leopard, and a Newfoundland dog,
which he used frequently to turn out together, to play in a green
behind his house. No sooner were the dog and leopard let loose, than
they began to chase the porcupine, who uniformly, at the outset, tried
to escape by flight, but when he found there was no chance of doing so,
he would thrust his head into some corner, and make a snorting noise,
and erect his spines. His pursuers, if too ardent, pricked their noses,
which made them angry; and in the quarrel which usually ensued, the
porcupine effected his escape.

Le Vaillant says that a wound from a porcupine's quill is difficult to
cure, from some poisonous quality it possesses; he mentions that a
Hottentot, who was pricked in the leg by one of these, was ill for
upwards of six months afterwards; and that a gentleman at the Cape kept
his bed for about four months, and nearly lost his limb, in consequence
of a wound inflicted by one of these animals.


THE HARE.

Of this slender, graceful creature, there are several species. The
animal which passes by the name of rabbit, in America, and is common in
our woods, is a hare. The pursuit of this animal is a favorite sport in
England, and some other countries of Europe.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--In the "Annals of Sporting," for 1822, we
find the following interesting account of a hare: "Two years ago, a doe
hare produced two young ones in a field adjoining my cottage; and the
three were occasionally seen, during the summer, near the same spot;
but the leverets were, I have reason to believe, killed at the latter
end of September of the same year. The old doe hare was also coursed,
and, making directly for my cottage, entered the garden, and there
blinked the dogs. I repeatedly afterwards saw her sitting, sometimes in
the garden, which is one hundred and ten yards by forty-three, but more
frequently in the garden-hedge. She was repeatedly seen by greyhounds
when she sat at some distance, but uniformly made for the garden, and
never failed to find security. About the end of the following January,
puss was no longer to be seen around the garden, as she had probably
retired to some distance with a male companion. One day, in February, I
heard the hounds, and shortly afterwards observed a hare making towards
the garden, which it entered at a place well known, and left not the
least doubt on my mind, that it was my old acquaintance, which, in my
family, was distinguished by the name of Kitty. The harriers shortly
afterwards came in sight, followed Kitty, and drove her from the
garden.

"I became alarmed for the safety of my poor hare, and heartily wished
the dogs might come to an irrecoverable fault. The hare burst away with
the fleetness of the wind, and was followed, breast high, by her fierce
and eager pursuers. In about twenty minutes I observed Kitty return
towards the garden, apparently much exhausted, and very dirty. She took
shelter beneath a small heap of sticks, which lay at no great distance
from the kitchen door. No time was to be lost, as, by the cry of the
hounds, I was persuaded they were nearly in sight. I took a
fishing-net, and, with the assistance of the servant, covered poor
Kitty, caught her, and conveyed the little, panting, trembling creature
into the house. The harriers were soon at the spot, but no hare was to
be found. I am not aware that I ever felt greater pleasure than in thus
saving poor Kitty from her merciless pursuers. Towards evening I gave
her her liberty; I turned her out in the garden, and saw her not again
for some time.

"In the course of the following summer, however, I saw a hare several
times which I took to be my old friend; and, in the latter end of
October, Kitty was again observed in the garden. Henceforward, she was
occasionally seen as on the preceding winter. One morning, in January,
when I was absent, a gun was fired near my cottage. Kitty was heard to
scream, but, nevertheless, entered the garden vigorously. The matter
was related to me on my return home; and I was willing to hope that
Kitty would survive. However, I had some doubt on the subject; and, the
next morning, as soon as light permitted, I explored the garden, and
found that my poor, unfortunate favorite had expired. She was stretched
beneath a large gooseberry tree; and I could not help regretting very
much her death."

Borlase informs us that he had a hare so completely tamed as to feed
from the hand. It always lay under a chair in the ordinary
sitting-room, and was as much domesticated as a cat. It was permitted
to take exercise and food in the garden, but always returned to the
house to repose. Its usual companions were a greyhound and a spaniel,
with whom it spent its evenings. The whole three seemed much attached,
and frequently sported together, and at night they were to be seen
stretched together on the hearth. What is remarkable, both the
greyhound and spaniel were often employed in sporting, and used
secretly to go in pursuit of hares by themselves; yet they never
offered the least violence to their timid friend at home.

Dr. Townson, the traveller, when at Gottingen, brought a young hare
into such a state of domestication, that it would run and jump about
his sofa and bed. It leaped on his knee, patted him with its fore feet;
and frequently, while he was reading, it would knock the book out of
his hands, as if to claim, like a fondled child, the preference of his
attention.

One Sunday evening, five choristers were walking on the banks of the
River Mersey, in England. Being somewhat tired, they sat down, and
began to sing an anthem. The field where they sat had a wood at its
termination. While they were singing, a hare issued from this wood,
came with rapidity towards the place where they were sitting, and made
a dead stand in the open field. She seemed to enjoy the harmony of the
music, and turned her head frequently, as if listening. When they
stopped, she turned slowly towards the wood. When she had nearly
reached the end of the field, they again commenced an anthem, at which
the hare turned round, and ran swiftly back, to within the same
distance as before, where she listened with apparent rapture till they
had finished. She then bent her way towards the forest with a slow
pace, and disappeared.

A hare, being hard run by a pack of harriers in the west of England,
and being nearly exhausted, happened to come upon another hare in her
form. She instantly drew out the latter, and slipped in herself; the
pack followed the newly-started hare, and the huntsmen, coming up,
found the animal they had been chasing, lying down in the form, panting
very hard, and covered with mud.

A gentleman, actuated by curiosity, put one male and two female hares
in a large garden, walled entirely round, where they had plenty to eat.
Judge his surprise, when he opened the gate of the garden in a year
from the time that he had shut in the animals, to find that his family
had increased to the number of forty-seven!

A hare was once seen to start from its form at the sound of the hunting
horn, run towards a pool of water at a considerable distance, plunge
in, and run to some rushes in the middle, where it lay down, and
concealed itself. By this ingenious trick, the animal balked its
pursuers, and effected its escape.




ORDER VII.

EDENTATA,

ANIMALS WITHOUT FRONT TEETH.


The animals in this order are not numerous, but they are marked with
very peculiar characteristics. The chief species are the sloths,
armadilloes, ant-eaters, and pangolins, of South America, and the
platypus of Australia. Most of these are too little known to have
furnished us with characteristic anecdotes.


THE SLOTH.

This singular animal is destined by nature to live upon the trees. He
is rare and solitary; and, as he is good for food, he is much sought
after by the Indians and negroes. He is ill at ease on the ground,
having no soles to his feet, which are so formed as to enable him to
cling to the branches of trees, from which he suspends himself.

Mr. Waterton kept one of these animals in his room for several months.
"I often took him out of the house," says he, "and placed him on the
ground, in order to get a good opportunity of observing his motions. If
the ground was rough, he would pull himself forward, by means of his
fore legs, at a pretty good pace; but he invariably shaped his course
towards the nearest tree. But if I put him upon a smooth and
well-trodden part of the road, he appeared to be in trouble and
distress: his favorite abode was on the back of a chair; and after
getting all his legs in a line upon the topmost part of it, he would
hang there for hours together, and often, with a low and inward cry,
would seem to invite me to take notice of him."

The same author thus describes an adventure with a sloth: "One day, as
we were crossing the Essequibo, I saw a large two-toed sloth on the
ground upon the bank. How he got there was a mystery. The Indian who
was with me said that he never surprised a sloth in such a situation
before. He could hardly have come there to drink; for, both above and
below, the branches of the trees touched the water, and afforded him a
safe and easy access to it. Be this as it may, he could not make his
way through the sand time enough to escape before we landed. As soon as
we got up to him, he threw himself upon his back, and defended himself
in gallant style with his fore legs. 'Come, poor fellow,' said I to
him, 'if thou hast had a hobble to-day, thou shalt not suffer for it;
I'll take no advantage of thee in misfortune. The forest is large
enough for thee and me to rove in; go thy ways up above, and enjoy
thyself in these endless wilds. It is more than probable thou wilt
never again have an interview with man. So, fare thee well!'

"Saying this, I took up a long stick which was lying there, held it for
him to hook on, and then conveyed him to a high and stately tree. He
ascended with wonderful rapidity, and in about a minute he was at the
top. He now went off in a side direction, and caught hold of the branch
of a neighboring tree. He then proceeded towards the heart of the
forest. I stood looking on, lost in amazement at his singular mode of
progression, and followed him with my eyes till I lost sight of him."


THE PLATYPUS.

Among the strange and interesting productions of Australia, no one is
more wonderful than the ornithorynchus, platypus, or water-mole. It is
aquatic in its habits, frequenting quiet streams, where it excavates
burrows to a great depth. It is about eighteen inches long, and is
covered with fur. It is web-footed, at the same time that its feet are
well fitted for burrowing in the earth. Its head terminates in a broad
bill, like that of a duck.

Mr. G. Bennett procured several specimens of this curious creature, but
did not succeed in taking them to England. One of them was caught at
the mouth of its burrow, and taken by Mr. B. to Lansdowne Park. "Here,"
says he, "I availed myself of the vicinity of some ponds, to give my
platypus a little recreation. On opening the box where I kept it, it
was lying in a corner, contracted into a very small compass, and fast
asleep. I tied a very long cord to its hind leg, and roused it; in
return for which, I received numerous growls. When placed on the bank,
it soon found its way into the water, and travelled up the stream,
apparently delighting in those places which most abounded in aquatic
weeds. Although it would dive in deep water, yet it always preferred
keeping close to the bank, occasionally thrusting its beak into the
mud, and at the roots of the various weeds on the margin of the pond,
as if in search of insects.

"After it had wandered some time, it crawled up the bank, and enjoyed
the luxury of scratching itself, and rolling about. In the process of
cleaning itself, the hind claws were alone brought into use for the
operation--first the claws of one hind leg, then the claws of the
other. The animal remained for more than an hour cleaning itself, after
which, it had a more sleek and glossy appearance than before. It never
became familiar, and always manifested the greatest reluctance to be
placed in the box. One night it escaped, and I was never able to find
it again."




ORDER VIII.

PACHYDERMATA,

THICK-SKINNED ANIMALS.


THE ELEPHANT.

This is the largest quadruped at present extant on the earth. It is
nine feet high, and in some cases has risen to the height of fifteen
feet. Its weight varies from four to nine thousand pounds. Nor is it
more distinguished for its size than its sagacity. When tamed, it
becomes the most gentle, obedient, and affectionate of domestic
animals, capable of being trained to any service which may be required
of it.

There are two species of elephant--the Asiatic and the African. The
former is the largest and best known. In the mighty forests which they
inhabit, they hold undisputed sway; their immense size, strength, and
swiftness, enabling them to dislodge all intruders from their abodes.
Even the lion and tiger fear their united attacks, and avoid being in
their vicinity. They are excellent swimmers, and are capable of
crossing the largest rivers. This power seems essential, for the
quantity of food they consume renders it necessary for them to remove
often from one region to another.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--Bishop Heber, in his approach to Dacca,
saw a number of elephants bathing, which he thus describes: "At a
distance of about half a mile from those desolate palaces a sound
struck my ear, as if from the water itself on which we were riding--the
most solemn and singular I can conceive. It was long, loud, deep, and
tremulous--something like the blowing of a whale, or, perhaps, more
like those roaring buoys which are placed at the mouths of some English
harbors, in which the winds make a noise to warn ships off them. 'O,'
said Abdallah, 'there are elephants bathing; Dacca much place for
elephant.' I looked immediately, and saw about twenty of these fine
animals, with their heads and trunks just appearing above the water.
Their bellowing it was which I had heard, and which the water conveyed
to us with a finer effect than if we had been on shore."

The manner of hunting and taming the wild elephant, in Asia, is
curious. In the middle of a forest, where these animals are known to
abound, a large piece of ground is marked out, and surrounded with
strong stakes driven into the earth, interwoven with branches of trees.
One end of this enclosure is narrow, and it gradually widens till it
takes in a great extent of country. Several thousand men are employed
to surround the herd of elephants, and to prevent their escape. They
kindle large fires at certain distances; and, by hallooing, beating
drums, and playing discordant instruments, so bewilder the poor
animals, that they allow themselves to be insensibly driven, by some
thousands more Indians, into the narrow part of the enclosure, into
which they are decoyed by tame female elephants, trained to this
service. At the extreme end of the large area is a small enclosure,
very strongly fenced in, and guarded on all sides, into which the
elephants pass by a long, narrow defile. As soon as one enters this
strait, a strong bar is thrown across the passage from behind.

He now finds himself separated from his neighbors, and goaded on all
sides by huntsmen, who are placed along this passage, till he reaches
the smaller area, where two tame female elephants are stationed, who
immediately commence disciplining him with their trunks, till he is
reduced to obedience, and suffers himself to be conducted to a tree, to
which he is bound by the leg, with stout thongs of untanned elk or
buckskin. The tame elephants are again conducted to the enclosure,
where the same operation is performed on the others, till all are
subdued. They are kept bound to trees for several days, and a certain
number of attendants left with each animal to supply him with food, by
little and little, till he is brought by degrees to be sensible of
kindness and caresses, and thus allows himself to be conducted to the
stable.

So docile and susceptible of domestication is the elephant, that, in a
general way, fourteen days are sufficient to reduce the animals to
perfect obedience. During this time, they are fed daily with cocoa-nut
leaves, of which they are excessively fond, and are conducted to the
water by the tame females. In a short time, they become accustomed to
the voice of their keeper, and at last quietly resign their freedom,
and great energies, to the dominion of man.

The mode employed by the Africans, to take elephants alive, is by pits.
Pliny, whose accounts were in general correct, mentions that, when one
of the herd happened to fall into this snare, his companions would
throw branches of trees and masses of earth into the pit, with the
intention of raising the bottom, so that the animal might effect his
escape. Although this appears to be a species of reasoning hardly to be
expected from an animal, yet it has in a great measure been confirmed
by Mr. Pringle, who says,--"In the year 1821, during one of my
excursions in the interior of the Cape Colony, I happened to spend a
few days at the Moravian missionary settlement of Enon, or White River.
This place is situated in a wild but beautiful valley, near the foot of
the Zuurberg Mountains, in the district of Uiterhage, and is surrounded
on every side by extensive forests of evergreens, in which numerous
herds of elephants still find food and shelter.

"From having been frequently hunted by the Boors and Hottentots, these
animals are become so shy as scarcely ever to be seen during the day,
except amongst the most remote and inaccessible ravines and jungles;
but in the night time they frequently issue forth in large troops, and
range, in search of food, through the inhabited farms in the White
River valley; and on such occasions they sometimes revenge the wrongs
of their race upon the settlers who have taken possession of their
ancient haunts, by pulling up fruit-trees, treading down gardens and
cornfields, breaking their ploughs, wagons, and so forth. I do not
mean, however, to affirm, that the elephants really do all this
mischief from feelings of revenge, or with the direct intention of
annoying their human persecutors. They pull up the trees, probably,
because they want to browse on their soft roots; and they demolish the
agricultural implements merely because they happen to be in their way.

"But what I am now about to state assuredly indicates no ordinary
intelligence. A few days before my arrival at Enon, a troop of
elephants came down, one dark and rainy night, close to the outskirts
of the village. The missionaries heard them bellowing, and making an
extraordinary noise, for a long time, at the upper end of the orchard;
but, knowing well how dangerous it is to encounter these powerful
animals in the night, they kept close within their houses till
daylight. Next morning, on their examining the spot where they had
heard the elephants, they discovered the cause of all this nocturnal
uproar. There was at this spot a ditch or trench, about four or five
feet in width, and nearly fourteen feet in depth, which the industrious
missionaries had recently cut through the banks of the river, on
purpose to lead out water to irrigate some part of their garden, and to
drive a corn-mill. Into this trench, which was still unfinished, and
without water, one of the elephants had evidently fallen, for the marks
of his feet were distinctly visible at the bottom, as well as the
impress of his huge body on the sides.

"How he had got into it, was not easy to conjecture; but how, being
once in, he ever contrived to get out again, was the marvel. By his own
unaided efforts it was obviously impossible for such an animal to have
extricated himself. Could his comrades, then, have assisted him? There
can be no question that they had, though by what means, unless by
hauling him out with their trunks, it would not be easy to conjecture;
and, in corroboration of this supposition, on examining the spot
myself, I found the edges of this trench deeply indented with numerous
vestiges, as if the other elephants had stationed themselves on either
side,--some of them kneeling, and others on their feet,--and had thus,
by united efforts, and probably after many failures, hoisted their
unlucky brother out of the pit."

We are told that the Emperor Domitian had a troop of elephants
disciplined to dance to the sound of music; and that one of them, which
had been beaten for not having his lesson perfect, was observed, on the
following night, to be practising by himself in a meadow.

The elephant recently exhibited in New York was fed by a young girl
with cakes and apples. While in the act of pulling an apple from her
bag, she drew out her ivory card-case, which fell, unobserved, in the
sawdust of the ring. At the close of the performances, the crowd opened
to let the elephant pass out; but, instead of proceeding as usual, he
turned aside, and thrust his trunk in the midst of a group of ladies
and gentlemen, who, as might be supposed, were very much alarmed. The
keeper at this moment discovered that the animal had something in his
trunk: upon examination, it was found to be the young lady's card-case,
which the elephant had picked up, and was now seeking out the fair
owner.

A female elephant, belonging to a gentleman at Calcutta, being ordered
from the upper country to Chittagong, broke loose from her keeper, and
was lost in the woods. The excuses which the man made were not
admitted. It was supposed that he had sold the elephant. His wife and
family were, therefore, sold as slaves, and he was himself condemned to
work upon the roads. About twelve years after, this man was ordered
into the country to assist in catching wild elephants. In a group that
he saw before him, the keeper thought that he recognized his long-lost
elephant. He was determined to go up to it; nor could the strongest
representations of the danger dissuade him from his purpose.

When he approached the creature, she knew him and, giving him three
salutes by waving her trunk in the air, knelt down and received him on
her back. She afterwards assisted in securing the other elephants, and
likewise brought with her three young ones, which she had produced
during her absence. The keeper recovered his character; and, as a
recompense for his sufferings and intrepidity, an annuity was settled
on him for life. This elephant was afterwards in the possession of
Warren Hastings.

Of the attachment of elephants to their keepers, or to those who have
done them a kindness, many instances are on record. Ælian relates that
a man of rank in India, having very carefully trained up a female
elephant, used daily to ride upon her. She was exceedingly sagacious,
and much attached to her master. The prince, having heard of the
extraordinary gentleness and capacity of this animal, demanded her of
her owner. But so attached was this person to his elephant, that he
resolved to keep her at all hazards, and fled with her to the
mountains. The prince, having heard of his retreat, ordered a party of
soldiers to pursue, and bring back the fugitive with his elephant. They
overtook him at the top of a steep hill, where he defended himself by
throwing stones down upon his pursuers, in which he was assisted by his
faithful elephant, who threw stones with great dexterity. At length,
however, the soldiers gained the summit of the hill, and were about to
seize the fugitive, when the elephant rushed amongst them with the
utmost fury, trampled some to death, dashed others to the ground with
her trunk, and put the rest to flight. She then placed her master, who
was wounded in the contest upon her back, and conveyed him to a place
of security.

When Pyrrhus, king of Epirus, attacked the territory of Argos, one of
his soldiers, who was mounted upon an elephant, received a dangerous
wound, and fell to the ground. When the elephant discovered that he had
lost his master in the tumult, he furiously rushed among the crowd,
dispersing them in every direction, till he had found him. He then
raised him from the ground with his trunk, and, placing him across his
tusks, carried him back to the town.

Some years ago, an elephant at Dekan, from a motive of revenge, killed
its conductor. The wife of the unfortunate man was witness to the
dreadful scene; and, in the frenzy of her mental agony, took her two
children, and threw them at the feet of the elephant, saying, "As you
have slain my husband, take my life, also, as well as that of my
children!" The elephant became calm, seemed to relent, and, as if stung
with remorse, took up the eldest boy with its trunk, placed him on its
neck, adopted him for its _cornac_, and never afterwards allowed
another to occupy that seat.

A soldier, in India, was in the habit of giving to an elephant,
whenever he received his pay, a certain quantity of arrack. Once, being
intoxicated, this soldier committed some excesses, and was ordered to
be sent to the guard-house; but he fled from the soldiers who were sent
to apprehend him, and took refuge under the body of his favorite
elephant, where he laid himself down quietly, and fell asleep. In vain
the guard attempted to seize upon him, and draw him from his place of
refuge; for the grateful elephant defended him with his trunk, and they
were obliged to abandon their attempt to secure him. When the soldier
awoke next morning from his drunken slumber, he was very much alarmed
at finding himself under the belly of such an enormous animal; but the
elephant caressed him with his trunk, so as to quiet his apprehensions,
and he got up and departed in safety.

The author of the "Twelve Years' Military Adventures" says,--"I have
seen the wife of a _mohout_ give a baby in charge to an elephant, while
she was on some business, and have been highly amused in observing the
sagacity and care of the unwieldy nurse. The child, which, like most
children, did not like to lie still in one position, would, as soon as
left to itself, begin crawling about, in which exercise it would
probably get among the legs of the animal, or entangle itself in the
branches of the trees on which he was feeding, when the elephant would,
in the most tender manner, disengage his charge, either by lifting it
out of the way with his trunk, or by removing the impediments to his
free progress. If the child had crawled to such a distance as to verge
upon the limits of his range,--for the animal was chained by the leg to
a peg driven into the ground,--he would stretch out his trunk, and lift
it back, as gently as possible, to the spot whence it had started."

The elephant is not less disposed to resent an injury than to reward a
benefit. It has been frequently observed, by those who have had the
charge of these animals, that they seem sensible of being ridiculed,
and seldom miss an opportunity of revenging themselves for the insults
they receive in this way. An artist in Paris wished to draw the
elephant in the menagerie at the _Jardin des Plantes_ in an
extraordinary attitude, which was with his trunk elevated in the air,
and his mouth open. An attendant on the artist, to make the elephant
preserve the attitude, threw fruits into his mouth, and often pretended
to throw them, without doing so. The animal became irritated, and,
seeming to think that the painter was the cause of his annoyance,
turned to him, and dashed a quantity of water from his trunk over the
paper on which the painter was sketching the portrait.

An amusing anecdote is related, by Captain Williamson, of an elephant,
which went by the name of the _paugal_, or fool, who, by his sagacity,
showed he could act with wisdom. This animal, when on a march, refused
to carry on his back a larger load than was agreeable to him, and
pulled down as much of the burden as reduced it to the weight which he
conceived proper for him to bear. One day, the quarter-master of
brigade became enraged at this obstinacy in the animal, and threw a
tent-pin at his head. A few days afterwards, as the creature was on his
way from camp to water, he overtook the quarter-master, and, seizing
him in his trunk, lifted him into a large tamarind-tree, which overhung
the road, and left him to cling to the branches, and to get down the
best way he could.

We shall conclude our anecdotes of the elephant with one which shows it
in a most amiable light. The Rajah Dowlah chose once to take the
diversion of hunting in the neighborhood of Lucknow, where there was a
great abundance of game. The grand vizier rode his favorite elephant,
and was accompanied by a train of Indian nobility. They had to pass
through a ravine leading to a meadow, in which several sick persons
were lying on the ground, in order to receive what benefit they could
from exposure to the air and the rays of the sun. As the vizier
approached with his numerous hunting party, the attendants of these
sick persons betook themselves to flight, leaving the helpless patients
to their fate. The nabob seriously intended to pass with his elephants
over the bodies of these poor wretches. He therefore ordered the driver
to goad on his beast. The elephant, as long as he had a free path, went
on at full trot; but, as soon as he came to the first of the sick
people, he stopped. The driver goaded him, and the vizier cursed; but
in vain. "Stick the beast in the ear!" cried the nabob. It was done;
but the animal remained steadfast before the helpless human creatures.
At length, when the elephant saw that no one came to remove the
patients, he took up one of them with his trunk, and laid him
cautiously and gently to a side. He proceeded in the same way with a
second and a third; and, in short, with as many as it was necessary to
remove, in order to form a free passage, through which the nabob's
retinue could pass without injuring any of them. How little did this
noble animal deserve to be rode by such an unfeeling brute in human
form!


THE HIPPOPOTAMUS.

This is among the largest of quadrupeds, being sometimes twelve feet
long, and six feet high. Its body is very massive, its legs short, and
its head large. The skin is extremely thick. It lives on the muddy
banks of rivers in Africa, diving on the approach of danger. It eats
grass, and generally feeds at night. It swims well, and walks on the
bottom with ease. The negroes of Africa hunt this animal for his flesh,
and when one of them is captured, it is the signal for a general feast.

_Effect of Music._--The enterprising and lamented traveller Clapperton
informs us that, when he was departing on a warlike expedition from
Lake Muggaby, he had convincing proofs that the hippopotami are
sensibly affected by musical sounds. "As the expedition passed along
the banks of the lake at sunrise," says he, "these uncouth and
stupendous animals followed the drums the whole length of the water,
sometimes approaching so close to the shore, that the spray they
spouted from their mouths reached the persons who were passing along
the banks. I counted fifteen, at one time, sporting on the surface of
the water."

_Hunting the Hippopotamus._--Dr. Edward Russell gives us the following
account of a hunt of the hippopotamus in Dongola: "One of the animals
that we killed was of an enormous size. We fought with him for four
good hours by night, and were very near losing our large boat, and
probably our lives too, owing to the fury of the animal. As soon as he
spied the huntsmen in the small canoe, he dashed at them with all his
might, dragged the canoe with him under water, and smashed it to
pieces. The two huntsmen escaped with difficulty. Of twenty-five
musket-balls aimed at the head, only one pierced the skin, and the
bones of the nose; at each snorting, the animal spouted out large
streams of blood on the boat. The rest of the balls stuck in the thick
hide.

"At last, we availed ourselves of a swivel; but it was not till we had
discharged five balls from it, at the distance of a few feet, that the
colossus gave up the ghost. The darkness of the night increased the
danger of the contest; for this gigantic animal tossed our boat about
in the stream at his pleasure; and it was at a fortunate moment indeed
for us that he gave up the struggle, as he had carried us into a
complete labyrinth of rocks, which, in the midst of the confusion, none
of our crew had observed."


THE RHINOCEROS.

In common with the lion and elephant, the rhinoceros frequents the vast
deserts of Asia and Africa. Its appearance is chiefly remarkable, from
possessing one solid conical horn on the nose, sometimes three feet in
length, and from having the skin disposed about the neck in large
plaits or folds. The body of this animal is little inferior in size to
the elephant, but he is much shorter in the legs; his length, from the
muzzle to the tail, is nearly twelve feet, and the girth about the same
measurement: from the shortness of his legs, the belly nearly touches
the ground.

The rhinoceros can run with great swiftness; and, from his strength,
and hard, impenetrable hide, he is capable of rushing through the
thickets with resistless fury, almost every obstacle being quickly
overturned in his track. There is a two-horned species in Africa, but
little is known of it.

In India, the hunting of the rhinoceros is famous sport. The people go
out mounted on elephants, and usually find five or six of these animals
in a drove. Their hides are so thick that it is difficult to kill them.
One will often receive twenty bullets before he falls. The rhinoceros
attacks an elephant fearlessly, and endeavors to get his horn under
him, so as to rip him open. But the elephant, finding what he would be
at, turns his rear to the assailant, who gives him a hunch behind, and
tumbles his huge enemy upon his knees. Then the men upon the elephants
fire their guns, and pepper the thick hide of the rhinoceros with their
bullets.

_Anecdotes._--In the year 1790, a rhinoceros arrived in England, about
five years old, and was purchased by Mr. Pidcock, of Exeter 'Change,
for seven hundred pounds. He was very mild, and allowed himself to be
patted on the back by strangers. He was quite obedient to the orders of
his keepers, and would move through the apartment to exhibit himself.
His daily allowance of food was twenty-eight pounds' weight of clover,
besides an equal provision of ship bread, and a great quantity of
greens; he drank five pails of water every twenty-four hours. He liked
sweet wines, and was sometimes indulged with a few bottles. His voice
resembled that of a calf, which he usually exerted at the sight of
fruit, or any favorite food. This animal suffered much from a
dislocation of the joint of one of his fore-legs, which induced
inflammation, and he died nine months afterwards.

The following particulars of a rhinoceros, exhibited at Exeter 'Change,
were obtained, by the late Sir Everard Home, from the person who kept
him for three years. "It was so savage," says he, "that, about a month
after it came, it endeavored to kill the keeper, and nearly succeeded.
It ran at him with the greatest impetuosity; but, fortunately, the horn
passed between his thighs, and threw the keeper on its head; the horn
came against a wooden partition, into which the animal forced it to
such a depth as to be unable for a minute to withdraw it; and, during
this interval, the man escaped. Its skin, though apparently so hard, is
only covered with small scales, of the thickness of paper, with the
appearance of tortoise-shell; at the edges of these, the skin itself is
exceedingly sensible, either to the bite of a fly or the lash of a
whip. By discipline, the keeper got the management of it, and the
animal was brought to know him; but frequently, more especially in the
middle of the night, fits of frenzy came on; and, while these lasted,
nothing could control its rage,--the rhinoceros running with great
swiftness round the den, playing all kinds of antics, making hideous
noises, knocking every thing to pieces, disturbing the whole
neighborhood, and then, all at once, becoming quiet. While the fit was
on, even the keeper durst not make his approach. The animal fell upon
its knee when it wished to strike any object with its horn. It was
quick in all its motions, ate voraciously all kinds of vegetables,
appearing to have no selection. It was chiefly fed on branches of
willow. Three years' confinement made no alteration in its habits."


THE WILD BOAR.

This is the original from which all the different kinds of the tame hog
have sprung. He is not subject to the varieties of the domestic races,
but is uniformly of a brindled or dark gray, inclining to black. His
snout is longer than that of the tame hog, his ears short, and pricked.
He has formidable tusks in each jaw, sometimes nearly a foot
long,--those in the upper jaw bending upwards in a circular form,
exceedingly sharp, being those with which the animal defends himself,
and frequently inflicts mortal wounds.

The wild boar is to be met with in various parts of Europe, Asia, and
Africa. The hunting of this animal has always afforded a rather
barbarous sport to the natives of the countries in which it is to be
found. The season for this sport is in the beginning of winter. The
huntsmen ride with the dogs, and encourage them at the same time that,
by the spear, they endeavor to dishearten the boar. The weapon is
generally directed towards the front of the animal's head, but
cautiously; for, were the boar to seize the spear, which it attempts to
do, it would wrest it from the hand of the hunter; and the latter,
unless supported, would fall a victim to its strength and ferocity.
There are generally more hunters than one; the boar is called off by
each man as he provokes it, and the animal thus generally perishes by a
series of attacks.

_Anecdotes._--A boar from Ethiopia was, in 1765, sent by the governor
of the Cape of Good Hope to the Prince of Orange. From confinement and
attention he became tolerably mild and gentle, except when offended, in
which case even those persons to whose care he was intrusted were
afraid of him. In general, however, when the door of his cage was
opened, he came out in perfect good-humor, frisked about in search of
food, and greedily devoured whatever was given him. He was one day left
alone in the court-yard for a few minutes; and, on the return of the
keeper, was found busily digging into the earth, where, notwithstanding
the cemented bricks of the pavement, he had made a very large hole, for
the purpose, as was afterwards conceived, of reaching a common sewer
that passed at a considerable depth below. When, after long
confinement, he was set at liberty, for a little while he was very gay,
and leaped about in an entertaining manner.

During Sparman's residence in Africa, he witnessed a curious method by
which the wild hogs protected their young, when pursued. The heads of
the females, which, at the commencement of the chase, had seemed of a
tolerable size, appeared, on a sudden, to have grown larger and more
shapeless than they were. This he found to have been occasioned by the
fact, that each of the old ones, during its flight, had taken up and
carried forward a young pig in its mouth; and this explained to him
another subject of surprise, which was, that all the pigs he had just
before been chasing with the old ones, had suddenly vanished.


THE DOMESTIC HOG.

The effect of domestication on the larger animals seems to be a
diminution of their powers of resistance or defence, no longer
necessary to their safety; and, on account of the want of free
exercise, an increase of size, attended by a relaxation of the fibres
and frame of the body. In this way, domestication has told with
considerable disadvantage on the hog. By the diminution of the size of
its tusks, and of its inclination or power to use them, it ceases to be
very formidable; and by luxurious habits, by overfeeding, and
indolence, the animal that fearlessly ranges the forest becomes one
whose sole delight it seems to be to rise to eat, and to lie down to
digest, and one whose external appearance, beyond that of any other
quadruped, testifies the gluttony of its disposition and of its
practices. The hog uses considerable selection in its vegetable diet,
but it compensates itself for the loss which its appetite might thus
sustain, by occasional recourse to animal food.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--The following statement, made a few years
ago by a gentleman in Stanbridge, England, develops the carnivorous
propensities which the hog sometimes discovers, even in a condition of
perfect domestication,--the variety too of animals which it is inclined
to devour. "I had a pig," says this writer, "of the Chinese species, a
most voracious fellow; but through necessity I have lately been obliged
to have him killed, finding that he endangered the safety of my
rabbits, hens, and ducks. Previous to possessing him, I had a small
warren of about forty yards square, walled in, and well stocked with
various-colored rabbits, which I had been at infinite pains to collect.
But, unfortunately, one day a rabbit having intruded into his sty, the
pig immediately caught and devoured it. This having given him an
opportunity of knowing the agreeable flavor of rabbit, he next day,
when let out, directed his course to the warren, and soon was
successful in securing another; he then returned to his sty, and
consumed it with the greatest avidity.

"After this circumstance occurred, he was confined three weeks; but
being again set at liberty, he immediately returned to his favorite
pursuit, and, after trying various manoeuvres for the space of a
quarter of an hour he seized another rabbit, and was returning, when I
ordered my servant to take it away. Unluckily for the servant, the pig,
after trying many devices to get by him, crouched for a moment, and
then, running furiously at him, seized on his leg, lacerating it so
severely, that he was confined to the house for six weeks. So greedy
was the pig, that, while the man was limping towards the house, he
actually went back to his prey, and carried it off victoriously.

"Being at a party the next day, and relating the above, a gentleman in
company appeared to doubt the veracity of the account. I asked him,
with the rest of the party, to dine with me the following day, that
they might witness the exploits of the creature. They all attended at
an early hour. No sooner had we released him, than off he went with the
most voracious eagerness, and entered the warren through a hole in the
wall; but he was not quite so successful to-day, for, after making many
fruitless attempts, most of the rabbits were driven to their burrows.
He now seemed as we supposed, despairing of success, as he lay down
amongst some furze; but, on our returning to the house, we were
surprised by the cry of his victim, and, immediately turning round, saw
him coming through the hole in the wall with a fine black rabbit. The
gentleman who doubted the facts over-night nearly met the fate of my
servant; but by actively springing over him, at the moment the furious
animal was seizing his legs, he escaped unhurt. After showing his
dexterity to many more gentlemen, I devised means to keep him out of
the warren. The carnivorous animal then took to my ducks and hens.
Still, however, I put up with his depredations while he confined
himself to my own yard; but having visited a neighbor's, and killed two
ducks and a favorite Guinea-hen, and much frightened the lady who went
to drive him away, I was obliged to kill him the next morning."

A gamekeeper of Sir Henry Mildmay, of England, broke a black sow to
find game, back, and stand to her point, nearly as steadily as a
well-bred dog. The sow was a thin, long-legged animal, of the New
Forest breed. When young, she manifested a great partiality for some
pointer puppies; and it occurred to the gamekeeper, that, as he had
often succeeded with obstinate dogs, he might attempt to break a pig.
He enticed her to follow him by bits of barley-meal pudding, which he
carried in one of his pockets, while the other was filled with stones,
which he threw at his pupil when she misbehaved, as she would not allow
herself to be caught and corrected, like a dog. Under this system she
proved tolerably tractable. When she came on the cold scent of game,
she slackened her trot, and gradually dropped her ears and tail till
she was certain, and then fell down on her knees. As soon as the game
rose, she returned, grunting, for her reward of pudding.

When the gamekeeper died, his widow sent the pig to Sir Henry Mildmay,
who kept it for three years, and often amused his friends by hiding a
fowl among the fern in some part of the park, and bringing out the pig,
which never failed to point at it in the manner described. Some time
after, a great number of lambs were lost nearly as soon as they were
dropped; and a person, being sent to watch the flock, detected the sow
in the act of devouring a lamb. This carnivorous propensity was
ascribed to her having been accustomed to feed with the dogs on flesh;
but it obliterated the memory of her singular sagacity, and she was
killed for the benefit of the widow of the gamekeeper who had trained
her.


THE TAPIR.

This quadruped resembles the hog in shape, but is much larger. It is of
a brown color, and has a long, flexible nose, somewhat like the
elephant's trunk. It sleeps during the day, and goes forth at night in
search of pasture, melons, and vegetables. One species is found in
South America, and one in Malacca and Sumatra. It is docile, is easily
tamed, and capable of strong attachments.

A young specimen of this animal was sent from Sumatra to Bengal, which
became very tractable. It was allowed to roam in the park, and
frequently entered the ponds, and walked along on the bottom, making no
attempt to swim.

A full-grown tapir was recently at the Zoological Gardens, in London,
which seemed to thrive very well. From its curious formation, and its
gentle, inoffensive manners, it became an object of great attraction.


THE HORSE.

This animal is now only known in a domestic state, or, if wild, but as
the offspring of domestic varieties. Most countries possess races of
this animal peculiar to themselves. The finest breed is that of Arabia.
The horse may be considered the most valuable of all the brute creation
to man. He combines strength, speed, and docility, beyond any other
animal. The wild herds in the western regions, Mexico, and South
America, are sprung from horses brought into the country by the
Spaniards.

The Arabian horse is a hardy animal, "left exposed," says
Chateaubriand, "to the most intense heat of the sun, tied by the four
legs to stakes set in the ground, and refreshed generally only once in
the twenty-four hours. Yet," continues the same writer, "release his
legs from the shackles, spring upon his back, and he will paw in the
valley; he will rejoice in his strength; he will swallow the ground in
the fierceness of his rage, and you recognize the original picture of
Job."

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--The Arab has a strong affection for his
horse; nor is it wonderful, when we consider that he is his support and
comfort--his companion through many a dreary day and night, enduring
hunger and thirst in his service. From their constant community, a kind
of sociality of feeling exists between them. The terms in which he
addresses his horse are thus given by Clarke: "Ibrahim went frequently
to Rama to inquire news of the mare, whom he dearly loved; he would
embrace her, wipe her eyes with his handkerchief, would rub her with
his shirt sleeves, would give her a thousand benedictions during whole
hours that he would remain talking to her. 'My eyes! my soul! my
heart!' he would say; 'must I be so unfortunate as to have thee sold to
many masters, and not keep thee myself? I am poor, my antelope! I
brought thee up in my dwelling as a child; I did never beat nor chide
thee.'" But the poverty of the Arabs, and the desire of foreigners to
possess their horses, frequently compel them to do what they so much
deprecate--to sell their horse. A horse he may be tempted by a large
sum to part with, but to sell a mare is a heart-rending trial to an
Arab. "When the envoy," says Sir John Malcolm, "was encamped near
Bagdad, an Arab rode a bright bay mare, of extraordinary shape and
beauty, before his tent, until he attracted his attention. On being
asked if he would sell her, 'What will you give me?' was the reply.
'That depends upon her age; I suppose she is past five.' 'Guess again,'
said he. 'Four?' 'Look at her mouth,' said the Arab, with a smile. On
examination, she was found to be rising three. This, from her size and
symmetry, greatly enhanced her value. The envoy said, 'I will give you
fifty _tomans_,' (a coin nearly of the value of a pound sterling.)
'A little more, if you please,' said the fellow, a little entertained.
'Eighty--a hundred.' He shook his head and smiled. The officer at last
came to two hundred tomans. 'Well,' said the Arab, 'you need not tempt
me further. You are a rich _elchee_, (nobleman;) you have fine horses,
camels, and mules, and I am told you have loads of silver and gold.
Now,' added he, 'you want my mare; but you shall not have her for all
you have got.'"

Nor does the Arabian horse fail to repay the attachment of his master.
It not only flies with him over the desert, but, when he lies down to
sleep, the faithful animal will browse on such herbage as is near the
spot; will watch its master with solicitude; and, if a man or animal
approaches, will neigh loudly till he is awakened. "When I was at
Jerusalem," says Chateaubriand, "the feats of one of these steeds made
a great noise. The Bedouin to whom the animal, a mare, belonged, being
pursued by the governor's guards, rushed with him from the top of the
hills that overlooked Jericho. The mare scoured at full gallop down an
almost perpendicular declivity without stumbling, and left the soldiers
lost in admiration and astonishment. The poor creature, however,
dropped down dead on entering Jericho; and the Bedouin, who would not
quit her, was taken, weeping over the body of his faithful companion.
Ali Aga religiously showed me, in the mountains near Jericho, the
footsteps of the beast that died in the attempt to save her master!"

The powers of the horse, as evinced in certain cases, appear almost
incredible. At four o'clock in the morning, a gentleman was robbed at
Gadshill, on the west side of Chatham, England, by a highwayman named
Nicks, who rode a bay mare. Nicks set off instantly for Gravesend,
where he was detained nearly an hour by the difficulty of getting a
boat--an interval which he employed to advantage in baiting his horse.
From thence he got to Essex and Chelmsford, where he again stopped
about half an hour, to refresh his horse. He then went to Braintree,
Bocking, Westerfield, and over the downs to Cambridge, and, still
pursuing the cross roads, he went to Huntingdon, where he again rested
about half an hour. Proceeding now on the north road, and at full
gallop most of the way, he arrived at York the same afternoon, put off
his boots and riding clothes, and went dressed to the bowling-green,
where, among other promenaders, happened to be the lord mayor of the
city. He there studied to do something particular, that his lordship
might remember him, and, asking what o'clock it was, the mayor informed
him that it was a quarter past eight. Upon prosecution for the robbery,
the whole safety of the prisoner rested upon this point. The gentleman
swore positively to the time and place; but, on the other hand, the
proof was equally clear of his being at York at the time specified. The
jury acquitted him on the supposed impossibility of his having got so
great a distance from Kent by the time he was seen in the
bowling-green. Yet it appeared afterwards that he was the robber, and
had performed this feat of horsemanship to escape conviction.

Very extraordinary performances of the horse, in swimming, are on
record. A violent gale of wind, at the Cape of Good Hope, setting in
from north and northwest, a vessel in the road dragged her anchors, was
forced on the rocks, and bilged; and, while the greater part of the
crew fell an immediate sacrifice to the waves, the remainder were seen,
from the shore, struggling for their lives by clinging to the different
pieces of the wreck. The sea ran dreadfully high, and broke over the
sailors with such amazing fury that no boat whatever could venture off
to their assistance. Meanwhile a planter, considerably advanced in
life, had come from his farm to be a spectator of the shipwreck. His
heart melted at the sight of the unhappy seamen; and, knowing the bold
and enterprising spirit of his horse, and his particular excellence as
a swimmer, he instantly determined to make a desperate effort for their
deliverance. He alighted, and blew a little brandy into his horse's
nostrils, and again seating himself in the saddle, he instantly pushed
into the midst of the breakers. At first both disappeared; but it was
not long before they floated on the surface, and swam up to the wreck;
when, taking with him two men, each of whom held by one of his boots,
he brought them safe to shore. This perilous expedition he repeated no
less than seven times, and saved fourteen lives; but, on his return the
eighth time, his horse being much fatigued, and meeting a most
formidable wave, he lost his balance, and was overwhelmed in a moment.
The horse swam safely to land, but his gallant rider was no more!

The effects of habit and discipline upon the horse are exemplified by
the following anecdotes:--An old cavalry horse has been known to stop,
in the midst of a rapid gallop, on hearing the word _Halt_, uttered by
an officer in the ranks. The Tyrolese, in one of their insurrections in
1809, took fifteen Bavarian horses, on which they mounted as many of
their own soldiers. A rencounter occurring with a squadron of the
regiment of Bubenhoven, these horses, on hearing the trumpet and
recognizing the uniform of their corps, set off at full gallop, and
carried their riders, in spite of all their resistance, into the midst
of the Bavarian ranks, where they were made prisoners.

Previously to the erection of the cavalry barracks in Glasgow, the
detachment of horse for the west of Scotland was sometimes divided
between Hamilton and Kilmarnock. Those assigned to the latter place,
having been sent to the fine grass fields in the vicinity of Loudon
Castle, presented on one occasion a most striking appearance. The day
was heavy and sultry; the thunder, which had at first been heard only
at a distance, began to increase in loudness and frequency, and drew
the marked attention of the horses. As it still became more loud, and
the numerous peals, echoed along the extensive slopes of Galston Moor,
crept along the water of the Irvine, or were reverberated through the
woods, the horses became animated with the same enthusiasm which seizes
them on hearing the rolling sounds emitted from numerous cannon. They
rushed together, and, rapidly arranging themselves in their accustomed
ranks, presented the front of a field of battle.

In the following case, related by Professor Kruger, of Halle, the horse
has rivalled the most remarkable examples of the sagacity and fidelity
of the dog. "A friend of mine," says he, "who was, one dark night,
riding home through a wood, had the misfortune to strike his head
against the branch of a tree, and fell from his horse stunned by the
blow. The horse immediately returned to the house they had left, which
stood about a mile distant. He found the door closed--the family had
retired to bed. He pawed at the door, till one of them, hearing the
noise, arose and opened it, and, to his surprise, saw the horse of his
friend. No sooner was the door opened than the horse turned round; and
the man, suspecting there was something wrong, followed the animal,
which led him directly to the spot where his master lay on the ground
in a fainting fit."

A horse in England, among other bad propensities, constantly resented
the attempts of the groom to trim his fetlocks. This circumstance had
been mentioned in a conversation, during which a young child, a very
few years old, was present, when its owner defied any man to perform
the operation singly. The father, next day, in passing through the
stable-yard, beheld, with the utmost distress, the infant employed,
with a pair of scissors, in clipping the fetlocks of the hind legs of
this vicious hunter--an operation which had been always hitherto
performed with great danger, even by a number of men. But the horse, in
the present case, was looking with the greatest complacency on the
little groom, who soon after, to the very great relief of his father,
walked off unhurt.

A gentleman in Bristol had a greyhound which slept in the same stable,
and contracted a very great intimacy, with a fine hunter. When the dog
was taken out, the horse neighed wistfully after him; he welcomed him
home with a neigh; the greyhound ran up to the horse and licked him;
the horse, in return, scratched the greyhound's back with his teeth. On
one occasion, when the groom had the pair out for exercise, a large dog
attacked the greyhound, bore him to the ground, and seemed likely to
worry him, when the horse threw back his ears, rushed forward, seized
the strange dog by the back, and flung him to a distance.

That the horse is much affected by musical sounds, must be evident to
every one who has paid attention to its motions, and the expression of
its countenance, while listening to the performances of a military
band. It is even said that, in ancient times, the Libyan shepherds were
enabled to allure to them wild horses by the charms of music. That this
is at least not entirely improbable, is evident from an experiment made
by a gentleman, in the year 1829, on some of the Duke of Buccleuch's
hunters. The horses being shy of his approach, and, indeed, retreating
from it, he sounded a small musical instrument, called the mouth Eolian
harp. On hearing it, they immediately erected their heads, and turned
round. On his again sounding it, they approached nearer him. He began
to retreat, and they to follow. Having gone over a paling, one of the
horses came up to him, putting its mouth close to his breast, and
seemingly delighted with the sounds which he continued to produce. As
the other horses were coming up, apparently to follow the example of
their more confident comrade, the gentleman retired.

A farmer in England, on his way home one evening, having drank rather
hard at an alehouse, could not keep an erect position on his horse, and
rolled off the animal into the road. His horse stood still; but, after
remaining patiently for some time, and not perceiving any disposition
in his rider to get up and proceed farther, he took him by the collar
and shook him. This had little or no effect, for the farmer only gave a
grumble of dissatisfaction at having his repose disturbed. The horse
was not to be put off with any such evasion, and so he applied his
mouth to one of his coat-laps, and after several attempts, by dragging
at it, to raise him upon his feet, the coat-lap gave way. Three
individuals who witnessed this extraordinary proceeding then went up,
and assisted in putting him on his horse, putting the one coat-lap into
the pocket of the other, when the horse trotted off and safely reached
home. He was said to be very fond of his master, and to gambol with him
like a dog.

As a gentleman was proceeding from a survey at Fort Augustus to his own
house,--a distance of about sixteen miles,--the road became completely
blocked up by snow, and nearly indiscernible. In this dilemma, he
thought it best to trust to his horse, and, loosing the reins, allowed
him to choose his own course. The animal made way, cautiously and
slowly, till, coming to a gully or ravine, both horse and rider
suddenly disappeared in a snow wreath several fathoms deep. The
gentleman, on recovering, found himself nearly three yards from the
dangerous spot, with his faithful horse standing over him and licking
the snow from his face. He supposed that the bridle must have been
attached to his person, by means of which he had been drawn out of the
pit.

A cart-horse belonging to a Mr. Leggat, of Glasgow had been several
times afflicted with the bots, and as often cured by a farrier by the
name of Dawine. He had not, however, been troubled with that disease
for a considerable time; but on a recurrence of the disorder, he
happened, one morning, to be employed nearly a mile from the farrier's
house. He was arranged in a row with other horses engaged in the same
work, and, while the carters were absent, he went, unattended by any
driver, through several streets, and up a narrow lane, when he stopped
at the farrier's door. As neither Mr. Leggat nor any one else appeared
with the horse, it was surmised that he had been seized with his old
complaint. Being unyoked from the cart, he lay down, and showed, by
every means of which he was capable, that he was in distress. He was
treated as usual, and sent home to Mr. Leggat, who had by that time
sent persons in all directions in search of him.

A curious instance of instinct occurred at Bristol, England, some years
ago, which proves the great local memory possessed by horses. A person,
apparently a townsman, recognized a horse, bestrode by a countryman, to
be one which he had lost about nine months before. He seized his
property, and put in his claim: "This is my horse. I will prove it in
two minutes, or quit my claim." He then set the horse free, and
declared his proof to be that the horse would be found at his stables,
at some distance--a fact that was attested, in a few minutes, by the
two claimants, and several bystanders, repairing to the stables, where
they found the horse "quite at home."

The celebrated Polish General Kosciusko once wished to send some
bottles of good wine to a clergyman at Solothurn; and, as he hesitated
to send them by his servant, lest he should smuggle a part, he gave the
commission to a young man of the name of Zeltner, and desired him to
take the horse he usually rode. Young Zeltner, on returning, said that
he would never ride his horse again without he gave him his purse at
the same time. Kosciusko asking him what he meant, he answered, "As
soon as a poor man on the road takes off his hat, and asks for charity,
the horse immediately stands still, and will not stir till something is
given to the petitioner; and as I had no money about me, I was obliged
to make a motion as if I had given something, in order to satisfy the
horse." A higher eulogy could hardly be pronounced upon the owner of
the horse.

The wild horses of the western country are thus described by Mr.
Catlin: "There is no other animal on the prairies so wild and sagacious
as the horse, and none so difficult to come up with. So remarkably keen
is their eye, that they will generally run 'at sight' a mile distant;
and, when once in motion, they seldom stop short of three or four
miles. I made many attempts to approach them by stealth, when they were
grazing, and playing their gambols, without succeeding more than once.
In this instance I left my horse, and skulked through a ravine for a
couple of miles, until I was within gunshot of a fine herd of them.
These were of all colors--some milk-white, some jet-black; others were
sorrel, and bay, and cream color; and many were of an iron-gray. Their
manes were profuse, and hanging in the wildest confusion over their
faces and necks, while their long tails swept the ground."

The Camanches and other tribes of Indians capture great numbers of wild
horses. The process is described by Catlin as follows: "The Indian,
when he starts for a wild horse, mounts one of the fleetest he can get,
and, coiling his lasso under his arm, which consists of a thong of
cowhide ten or fifteen yards long, with a noose at the end of it, he
starts under 'full whip' till he can enter the drove, when he soon gets
the noose over the neck of one of them. He then dismounts, leaving his
own horse, and runs as fast as he can, letting the lasso pass out
gradually and carefully through his hands, until the horse falls for
want of breath, and lies helpless on the ground. The Indian then
advances slowly towards his head, keeping the lasso tight upon his
neck, until he fastens a pair of hobbles on his two fore feet, and also
loosens the lasso, and moves it round the under jaws; by which he gets
great power over the affrighted animal, which is constantly rearing and
plunging. He then advances, hand over hand, towards the horse's nose,
and places one hand over his eyes; he then breathes in his nostrils,
when he soon becomes conquered and docile, and allows himself to be led
or ridden to the camp."

It appears that horses are subject to a kind of panic, which in the
western prairies is called _stampede_. The instances of this frenzy,
as described by travellers, sometimes present the most terrific
spectacles. Mr. Kendall, in his "Narrative," gives us the following
lively sketch:--

"As there was no wood about our camping-ground, some half a dozen men
pushed on in search of it. One of them had a wild, half-broken Mexican
horse, naturally vicious, and with difficulty mastered. His rider found
a small, dry tree, cut it down with a hatchet, and very imprudently
made it fast to his horse's tail by means of a rope. The animal took it
unkindly from the first, and dragged his strange load with evident
symptoms of fright; but when within a few hundred yards of the camp, he
commenced pitching, and finally set off into a gallop, with the cause
of all his uneasiness and fear still fast to his tail. His course was
directly for the camp; and, as he sped along the prairie, it was
evident that our horses were stricken with a panic at his approach. At
first they would prick up their ears, snort, and trot majestically
about in circles; then they would dash off at the top of their speed,
and no human power could arrest their mad career.

"'A stampede!' shouted some of the old campaigners,--a stampede! Look
out for your horses, or you'll never see them again,' was heard on
every side. Fortunately for us, the more intractable horses had been
not only staked, but hobbled, before the panic became general, and were
secured with little difficulty; else we might have lost half of them.
Frequent instances have occurred where a worthless horse has occasioned
the loss of hundreds of valuable animals.

"Nothing can exceed the grandeur of the scene when a large _cavallada_,
or drove of horses, takes a 'scare.' Old, weather-beaten, time-worn,
and broken-down steeds--horses that have nearly given out from hard
work and old age--will at once be transformed into wild and prancing
colts. With heads erect, tails and manes streaming in the air, eyes lit
up, and darting beams of fright,--old and jaded hacks will be seen
prancing and careering about with all the buoyancy which characterizes
the action of young colts. Then some one of the drove, more frightened
than the rest, will dash off in a straight line, the rest scampering
after him, and apparently gaining fresh fear at every jump. The throng
will then sweep along the plain with a noise which may be likened to
something between a tornado and an earthquake; and as well might feeble
man attempt to arrest the earthquake as the stampede."


THE PONY.

This is a variety of the horse--its small stature being the result of
the climate in which it is bred. The most remarkable kinds are produced
in Wales, the Highlands of Scotland, and the Shetland Isles.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--One afternoon in September, a gentleman in
England, mounted on a favorite old shooting pony, had beaten for game
all day without meeting with any success, when, on a sudden, to his
great astonishment, his pony stopped short, and he could not persuade
him to move, either by whip or spur. He desired his keeper to go
forward. He did. A covey of fifteen partridges rose. They were, of
course, killed by the astonished sportsman. The pony had been
accustomed to carry his master for many years on shooting expeditions,
and had, no doubt, acquired a knowledge of the scent of birds.

A little girl, the daughter of a gentleman in Warwickshire, England,
playing one day on the banks of a canal which ran through the grounds,
had the misfortune to fall in, and in all probability would have been
drowned, had not a little pony, which was grazing near, and which had
been kept by the family many years, plunged into the stream, and,
taking the child up by her clothes, brought her safely to shore without
the slightest injury.

A gentleman was some time since presented with a Shetland pony, which
was only seven hands in height, and very docile and beautiful. He was
anxious to convey his present home as soon as possible, but, being at a
considerable distance, he was at a loss how to do so easily. The friend
who presented it to him said, "Can you not convey him home in your
chaise?" He accordingly made the experiment. The pony was lifted into
the bottom of the gig, and covered up with the boot--some bits of bread
being given him, to keep him quiet. He lay quite peaceably till his
master had reached his place of destination; thus exhibiting the novel
spectacle of a horse riding in a gig.

A pony mare belonging to Mr. Evans, of Montgomeryshire, England, had a
colt, and they both grazed in a field adjoining the River Severn. One
day, the pony made her appearance in front of the house, making a
clattering with her feet, and other noises, to attract attention.
Observing this, a person went out, and the pony immediately galloped
off. Mr. Evans desired he should be followed. On reaching the field,
the pony was found looking into the river, where the colt was drowned.


THE ASS.

When the ass is brought into comparison with the horse, in respect to
external form, every thing appears to be in favor of the latter animal.
The ass is inferior to the horse in size, less sprightly in its
motions, its head is heavy, and it stoops in its gait. The horse
generally moves with its head erect, looks freely abroad on the skies
and earth, with an eye expressive of lively emotions. The ass is seen
trudging slowly along, as if sensible of the hopelessness of a
cessation from toil; and, full of melancholy thoughts, its leaden eye
is fixed on the ground. Yet its shape and its habits, in its state of
servitude, present something that is pleasing, though, on the whole,
they are somewhat untoward and ungainly.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--The ass is far from being incapable of
understanding the nature of the employments in which he is engaged, or
disobedient to the commands of his master. An ass was employed, at
Carisbrook, in the Isle of Wight, in drawing water by a large wheel
from a deep well, supposed to have been sunk by the Romans. When his
keeper wanted water, he would call the ass by his name, saying, "I want
water; get into the wheel;" which wish the ass immediately complied
with; and there can be no doubt but that he knew the precise number of
times necessary for the wheel to revolve upon its axis in order to
complete his labor; for every time he brought the bucket to the surface
of the well, he stopped and turned round his head to observe the moment
when his master laid hold of the bucket to draw it towards him, because
he had then a nice motion to make either slightly forward or backward,
as the situation of the bucket might require.

In 1816, an ass belonging to Captain Dundas was shipped on board the
Ister, bound from Gibraltar to Malta. The vessel struck on a sand-bank
off the Point de Gat, and the ass was thrown overboard into a sea which
was so stormy that a boat that soon after left the ship was lost. In
the course of a few days, when the gates of Gibraltar were opened in
the morning, the guard was surprised by the same ass, which had so
recently been removed, presenting itself for admittance. On entering,
it proceeded immediately to the stable which it had formerly occupied.
The ass had not only swam to the shore, but found its own way from
Point de Gat to Gibraltar, a distance of more than two hundred miles,
through a mountainous and intricate country intersected by streams,
which it had never passed before, but which it had now crossed so
expeditiously that it must have gone by a route leading the most
directly to Gibraltar.

A few years ago, at Swalwell, England, a man set his bull-dog to attack
an ass, that for a while gallantly defended itself with its heels,
which it was agile enough to keep presented to the dog. Suddenly
turning round on its adversary, it caught it with its teeth, in such a
manner that the dog was unable to retaliate. It then dragged the
assailant to the River Derwent, into which it plunged it overhead, and
lying down upon it, kept it in the water till it was drowned.

Though the ass is frequently the subject of ill treatment, yet it seems
to be an animal not without affection for its master, which in many
cases we may suppose to be returned by kindness and care on his part. A
pleasing instance to this effect we have in the following anecdote: "An
old man, who some time ago sold vegetables in London, had an ass which
carried his baskets from door to door. He frequently gave the poor
industrious creature a handful of hay, or some pieces of bread or
greens, by way of refreshment and reward. The old man had no need of
any goad for the animal, and seldom, indeed, had he to lift up his hand
to drive it on. His kind treatment was one day remarked to him, and he
was asked whether the beast was not apt to be stubborn. 'Ah!' he said,
'it is of no use to be cruel; and as for stubbornness, I cannot
complain, for he is ready to do any thing or go any where. I bred him
myself. He is sometimes skittish and playful, and once ran away from
me: you will hardly believe it, but there were more than fifty people
after him, attempting in vain to stop him; yet he turned back of
himself, and never stopped till he ran his head kindly into my bosom.'"

The following is a pleasing anecdote of the sagacity of the ass, and
the attachment displayed by the animal to his master. Thomas Brown
travelled in England as a pedler, having an ass the partner of his
trade. From suffering under paralysis, he was in the habit of assisting
himself on the road by keeping hold of the crupper of the saddle, or
more frequently the _tail_ of the ass. During a severe winter some
years ago, whilst on one of his journeys, the old man and his ass were
suddenly plunged into a wreath of snow. There they lay far from help,
and ready to perish.

At last, after a severe struggle, the poor ass got out; but, finding
his unfortunate master absent, he eyed the snow-bank some time with a
wistful look, and at last forced his way through it to where his master
lay, when, placing his body in such a position as to allow him to lay a
firm hold on his tail, the honest pedler was enabled to grasp it, and
was actually dragged out by the faithful beast to a place of safety!


THE ZEBRA.

The zebra possesses some of the characteristics of the horse;--smaller
in size, it strongly resembles it in the shape of its body, its head,
its limbs, and its hoofs. It moves in the same paces, with a similar
activity and swiftness. But it discovers none of that docility which
has rendered the services of the horse so invaluable to man. On the
contrary, it is proverbially untamable; it is ever the most wild even
among those ferocious animals which are ranged in the menagerie, and it
preserves in its countenance the resolute determination never to
submit.

In the year 1803, General Dundas brought a female zebra from the Cape
of Good Hope, which was deposited in the Tower, and there showed less
than the usual impatience of subordination. The person who had
accompanied her home, and attended her there, would sometimes spring on
her back, and proceed thus for about two hundred yards, when she would
become restive, and oblige him to dismount. She was very irritable, and
would kick at her keeper. One day she seized him with her teeth, threw
him down, and showed an intention to destroy him, which he disappointed
by rapidly extricating himself. She generally kicked in all directions
with her feet, and had a propensity to seize with her teeth whatever
offended her. Strangers she would not allow to approach her, unless the
keeper held her fast by the head, and even then she was very prone to
kick.

The most docile zebra on record was burnt at the Lyceum, near Exeter
'Change. This animal allowed its keeper to use great familiarities with
it,--to put children on its back, without discovering any resentment.
On one occasion, a person rode it from the Lyceum to Pimlico. It had
been bred in Portugal, and was the offspring of parents half reclaimed.

The zebra of the plain differs from the other species in having the
ground color of the body white, the mane alternately striped with black
and white, and the tail of a yellowish white. A specimen of this animal
was a few years since in the Tower of London, where it was brought to a
degree of tameness seldom reached by the other variety. It ran
peaceably about the Tower, with a man by its side, whom it did not
attempt to leave except for the purpose of breaking off to the canteen,
where it was sometimes regaled with a glass of ale, a liquor for which
it discovered a considerable fondness.




ORDER IX.

RUMINANTIA,

RUMINATING ANIMALS--THOSE THAT CHEW THE CUD.


THE CAMEL.

Of this quadruped there are two species, the dromedary, and the
Bactrian camel, which has two hunches on the back. It has been used
from the earliest ages, and is one of the most useful of all the
animals over which the inhabitants of Asia and Africa have acquired
dominion. These continents are intersected by vast tracts of burning
sand, the seats of desolation and drought; but by means of the camel,
the most dreary wastes are traversed. The camel's great strength, and
astonishing powers of abstinence both from food and drink, render it
truly invaluable in these inhospitable countries. Denon tells us that,
in crossing the Arabian Desert, a single feed of beans is all their
food for a day. Their usual meal is a few dates, or some small balls of
barleymeal, or, occasionally, the dry and thorny plants they meet with,
at remote intervals, during their progress across the desert. With
these scanty meals, the contented creature will lie down to rest amid
the scorching sands, without exhibiting either exhaustion or a desire
for better fare. Well may the Arab call the camel "the ship of the
desert!"

Mr. McFarlane says, "I have been told that the Arabs will kiss their
camels, in gratitude and affection, after a journey across the deserts.
I never saw the Turks, either of Asia Minor or Roumelia, carry their
kindness so far as this; but I have frequently seen them pat their
camels when the day's work was done, and talk to them on their journey,
as if to cheer them. The camels appeared to me quite as sensible to
favor and gentle treatment as is a well-bred horse. I have seen them
curve and twist their long, lithe necks as their driver approached, and
often put down their tranquil heads toward his shoulder. Near Smyrna,
and at Magnesia and Sardes, I have occasionally seen a camel follow his
master like a pet dog, and go down on his knees before him, as if
inviting him to mount. I never saw a Turk ill-use the useful, gentle,
amiable quadruped; but I have frequently seen him give it a portion of
his own dinner, when, in unfavorable places, it had nothing but chopped
straw to eat. I have sometimes seen the _devidjis_, on a hot day, or in
passing a dry district, spirt a little water in the camels' nostrils;
they pretend it refreshes them."

The same writer says that, upon his first camel adventure, he was so
taken by surprise by the creature's singular rising behind, that he was
thrown over his head, to the infinite amusement of the Turks, who were
laughing at his inexperience. "I was made acquainted with this
peculiarity of the animal's movement, in a striking manner, the first
time I mounted a camel out of curiosity. I ought to have known
better--and, indeed, did know better; but when he was about to rise,
from old habits associated with the horse, I expected he would throw
out his fore legs, and I threw myself forward accordingly--when up
sprang his hind legs, and clean I went over his ears, to the great
delight of the devidjis."

The following interesting story of the sufferings of a caravan, from
thirst, is related by Burckhardt: "In the month of August, a small
caravan prepared to set out from Berber to Daraou. They consisted of
five merchants and about thirty slaves, with a proportionate number of
camels. Afraid of the robber Naym, who at that time was in the habit of
waylaying travellers about the wells of Nedjeym, and who had constant
intelligence of the departure of every caravan from Berber, they
determined to take a more easterly road, by the well of Owareyk. They
had hired an Ababde guide, who conducted them in safety to that place,
but who lost his way from thence northward, the route being little
frequented. After five days' march in the mountains, their stock of
water was exhausted, nor did they know where they were. They resolved,
therefore, to direct their course towards the setting sun, hoping thus
to reach the Nile. After experiencing two days' thirst, fifteen slaves
and one of the merchants died: another of them, an Ababde, who had ten
camels with him, thinking that the animals might know better than their
masters where water was to be found, desired his comrades to tie him
fast upon the saddle of his strongest camel, that he might not fall
down from weakness; and thus he parted from them, permitting his camels
to take their own way; but neither the man nor his camels were ever
heard of afterwards. On the eighth day after leaving Owareyk, the
survivors came in sight of the mountains of Shigre, which they
immediately recognized; but their strength was quite exhausted, and
neither men nor beasts were able to move any farther. Lying down under
a rock, they sent two of their servants, with the two strongest
remaining camels, in search of water. Before these two men could reach
the mountain, one of them dropped off his camel, deprived of speech,
and able only to move his hands to his comrade, as a sign that he
desired to be left to his fate. The survivor then continued his route;
but such was the effect of thirst upon him, that his eyes grew dim, and
he lost the road, though he had often travelled over it before, and had
been perfectly acquainted with it. Having wandered about for a long
time, he alighted under the shade of a tree, and tied the camel to one
of its branches; the beast, however, smelt the water, (as the Arabs
express it,) and, wearied as it was, broke its halter, and set off
galloping in the direction of the spring, which, as afterwards
appeared, was at half an hour's distance. The man, well understanding
the camel's action, endeavored to follow its footsteps, but could only
move a few yards; he fell exhausted on the ground, and was about to
breathe his last, when Providence led that way, from a neighboring
encampment, a Bisharye Bedouin, who, by throwing water upon the man's
face, restored him to his senses. They then went hastily together to
the water, filled their skins, and, returning to the caravan, had the
good fortune to find the sufferers still alive. The Bisharye received a
slave for his trouble."


DEER.

Of this genus there are many species, as the elk, moose, stag,
fallow-deer, reindeer, &c. They are characterized by timidity, a love
of retirement in the solitudes of the forest, a general capacity for
domestication, and great swiftness of foot.

The MOOSE.--In the immense forests of North America, this animal is
hunted by the Indians with such relentless perseverance, that all its
instincts are called forth for the preservation of its existence.
Tanner tells us that, "in the most violent storm, when the wind, the
thunder, and the falling timber, are making the loudest and most
incessant roar, if a man, either with his foot or hand, breaks the
smallest dry limb in the forest, the moose will hear it; and though he
does not always run, he ceases eating, and gives all his attention to
the sounds he may hear, and he does not relax this till after three or
four hours of the keenest vigilance."

The AMERICAN ELK.--This stately creature is easily domesticated, and
will then come at the call of his master, follow him to a distance from
home, and return with him quietly. Although of a gentle disposition,
instances have occurred of its turning upon its pursuers. A wounded one
was once known to turn and face a hunter in the woods of Canada; the
man was found next day pounded to a jelly, his bones being broken to
pieces; the deer, having exhausted its fury, was found dead by his
side.

The RED DEER.--The stag is said to love music, and to show great
delight at hearing any one sing. If a person happens to whistle, or
call some one at a distance, the creature stops short, and gazes upon
the stranger with a kind of silent admiration; and if he perceives
neither fire-arms nor dogs, he slowly approaches him with apparent
unconcern. He seems highly delighted with the sound of the shepherd's
pipe. Playford says, "Travelling some years since, I met, on the road
near Royston, a herd of about twenty bucks, following a bagpipe and
violin. While the music continued, they proceeded; when it ceased, they
all stood still."

Brown tells us the following story: "As Captain Smith, of the Bengal
Native Infantry, was out in the country with a shooting party, very
early in the morning, they observed a tiger steal out of a jungle in
pursuit of a herd of deer. Having selected one as his object, it was
quickly deserted by the herd. The tiger advanced with such amazing
swiftness that the stag in vain attempted to escape, and, at the moment
the gentleman expected to see the fatal spring, the deer gallantly
faced his enemy, and for some minutes kept him at bay; and it was not
till after three attacks that the tiger succeeded in securing his prey.
He was supposed to have been considerably injured by the horns of the
stag, as, on the advance of Captain Smith, he abandoned the carcass,
having only sucked the blood from the throat."

The following circumstances are mentioned by Delacroix: "When I was at
Compiegne," says he, "my friends took me to a German who exhibited a
wonderful stag. As soon as we had taken our seats in a large room, the
stag was introduced. He was of an elegant form and majestic stature,
his aspect at once animated and gentle. The first trick he performed
was, to make a profound obeisance to the company, as he entered, by
bowing his head; after which he paid his respects to each individual of
us in the same manner. He next carried about a small stick in his
mouth, to each end of which a small wax taper was attached. He was then
blindfolded, and, at the beat of a drum, fell upon his knees, and laid
his head upon the ground. As soon as the word _pardon_ was pronounced,
he instantly sprang upon his feet. Dice were thrown upon the head of a
drum, and he told the numbers that were cast up, by bowing his head so
many times. He discharged a pistol, by drawing with his teeth a string
that was tied to the trigger. He fired a small cannon by means of a
match that was fastened to his right foot, without showing any signs
of fear. He leaped several times, with the greatest agility, through
a hoop, which his master held at a man's height from the ground.
At length the exhibition was closed with his eating a handful of oats
from the head of a drum, which a person was beating the whole time
with the utmost violence. Almost every trick was performed with as
much steadiness as it could have been accomplished by the best-trained
dog."

At Wonersh, near Guildford, the seat of Lord Grantley, a fawn was
drinking in the lake, when one of the swans suddenly flew upon it, and
pulled the poor animal into the water, where it held it under till it
was drowned. This act of atrocity was noticed by the other deer in the
park, and they took care to revenge it the first opportunity. A few
days after, this swan, happening to be on land, was surrounded and
attacked by the whole herd, and presently killed. Before this time,
they were never known to molest the swans.

The VIRGINIA DEER.--A young gentleman, in Bath, Virginia, killed two
large bucks, the horns of which were so interlocked that they could not
disengage themselves. There is no doubt that they had had a combat;
and, from observations made by the sportsman, he supposed them to have
been in that condition several days. The horns were so securely
fastened that, he could not separate them without breaking off one of
the prongs. The bucks were killed at two shots, and the one which
escaped the first ball carried the other a hundred yards before he met
his death.

A farmer in the state of Kentucky domesticated a female deer, but lost
her during the whole spring and summer. After an absence of several
months, she returned with a fawn at her side, and, on her arrival,
seemed to take great pleasure in showing her young one.

The Virginia deer is said by the hunters to evince a strong degree of
animosity towards serpents, and especially to the rattlesnake. In order
to destroy one of these creatures, the deer makes a bound into the air,
and alights upon the serpent with all four feet brought together in a
square, and these violent blows are repeated till the hated reptile is
destroyed.

The REINDEER.--This animal, as is well known, is the great resource of
the Laplanders, to whom it furnishes most of the necessaries of life.
Two or three varieties are found in the polar regions of the American
continent. "They visit the Arctic shores," says Captain Lyon, "at the
latter end of May or the early part of June, and remain until late in
September. On his first arrival, the animal is thin, and his flesh is
tasteless; but the short summer is sufficient to fatten him. When
feeding on the level ground, an Esquimaux makes no attempt to approach
him; but should a few rocks be near, the wary hunter feels secure of
his prey. Behind one of these he cautiously creeps, and, having laid
himself very close, with his bow and arrow before him, imitates the
bellow of the deer when calling to its mate. Sometimes, for more
complete deception, the hunter wears his deer-skin coat and hood so
drawn over his head, as to resemble, in a great measure, the
unsuspecting animals he is enticing. Though the bellow proves a
considerable attraction, yet if a man has great patience, he may do
without it, and may be equally certain that his prey will ultimately
come to examine him; the reindeer being an inquisitive animal, and at
the same time so silly, that, if he sees any suspicious object which is
not actually chasing him, he will gradually, and after many caperings,
and forming repeated circles, approach nearer and nearer to it.

"The Esquimaux rarely shoot until the creature is within twelve paces,
and I have frequently been told of their being killed at a much shorter
distance. It is to be observed that the hunters never appear openly,
but employ stratagem for their purpose--thus by patience and ingenuity
rendering their rudely-formed bows, and still worse arrows, as
effective as the rifles of Europeans. When two men hunt in company,
they sometimes purposely show themselves to the deer, and when his
attention is fully engaged, walk slowly away from him, one before the
other. The deer follows, and when the hunters arrive near a stone, the
foremost drops behind it, and prepares his bow, while his companion
continues walking steadily forward. This latter the deer still follows
unsuspectingly, and thus passes near the concealed man, who takes a
deliberate aim, and kills him."


THE GIRAFFE.

This animal, the tallest of quadrupeds, is found in the interior of
Africa. Its height is about seventeen feet. It is of a fawn color,
marked with dark spots. Its neck is slender, its head gracefully
formed, and its eyes soft, yet animated. It associates in small troops,
and feeds upon the twigs and leaves of trees.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--Some years ago, a giraffe was sent from
Egypt to Constantinople. Its keeper used to exercise it in an open
square, where the Turks used to flock daily, in great crowds, to see
the extraordinary animal. Seeing how inoffensive it was, and how
domesticated it became, the keeper used to take it with him through the
city, and, whenever he appeared, a number of friendly hands were held
out of the latticed windows to offer it something to eat. The women
were particularly attentive to it. When it came to a house where it had
been well treated, if no one was at the window, it would tap gently
against the wooden lattice, as if to announce its visit. It was
extremely docile and affectionate; and, if left to itself it always
frequented the streets where it had the most and best friends.

The giraffe has become familiar to us, in the menageries, of late
years; but half a century ago, its very existence was doubted. Le
Vaillant was the first to dissipate the mystery which enveloped it. His
account of his success in killing one, is given in the following
glowing terms: "The 18th of November was the happiest day of my life.
By sunrise I was in pursuit of game, in the hope to obtain some
provision for my men. After several hours' fatigue, we descried, at the
turn of a hill, seven giraffes, which my pack instantly pursued. Six of
them went off together; but the seventh, cut off by my dogs, took
another way. Bernfry was walking by the side of his horse; but in the
twinkling of an eye, he was in the saddle, and pursued the six. For
myself, I followed the single one at full speed; but, in spite of the
efforts of my horse, she got so much ahead of me, that, in turning a
little hill, I lost sight of her altogether; and I gave up the pursuit.
My dogs, however, were not so easily exhausted. They were soon so close
upon her, that she was obliged to stop, to defend herself. From the
place where I was, I heard them give tongue with all their might; and,
as their voices appeared all to come from the same spot, I conjectured
that they had got the animal in a corner; and I again pushed forward. I
had scarcely got round the hill, when I perceived her surrounded by the
dogs, and endeavoring to drive them away by heavy kicks. In a moment I
was on my feet, and a shot from my carbine brought her to the earth.
Enchanted with my victory, I returned to call my people about me, that
they might assist in skinning and cutting up the animal. Whilst I was
looking for them, I saw one of my men, who kept making signals which I
could not comprehend. At length, I went the way he pointed; and, to my
surprise, saw a giraffe standing under a large ebony-tree, assailed by
my dogs. It was the animal I had shot, who had staggered to this place;
and it fell dead at the moment I was about to take a second shot. Who
could have believed that a conquest like this would have excited me to
a transport almost approaching to madness! Pains, fatigues, cruel
privation, uncertainty as to the future, disgust sometimes as to the
past,--all these recollections and feelings fled at the sight of this
new prey. I could not satisfy my desire to contemplate it. I measured
its enormous height. I looked from the animal to the instrument which
had destroyed it. I called and recalled my people about me. Although we
had combated together the largest and most dangerous animals, it was I
alone who had killed the giraffe. I was now able to add to the riches
of natural history. I was now able to destroy the romance which
attached to this animal, and to establish a truth. My people
congratulated me on my triumph. Bernfry alone was absent; but he came
at last, walking at a slow pace, and holding his horse by the bridle.
He had fallen from his seat, and injured his shoulder. I heard not what
he said to me. I saw not that he wanted assistance; I spoke to him only
of my victory. He showed me his shoulder; I showed him my giraffe. I
was intoxicated, and I should not have thought even of my own wounds."


THE GOAT.

Of this animal there are many species, some wild and some domestic.
They seem to be a link between the sheep and antelope, and to partake
of the qualities of both. In some European countries, goat's milk is
used, by the poor, as a substitute for that of the cow.

_Anecdotes._--A person in Scotland having missed one of his goats
when his flock came home at night, being afraid the wanderer would get
among the young trees in his nursery, two boys, wrapped in their
plaids, were ordered to watch all night. The morning had but faintly
dawned, when they sprang up the brow of a hill in search of her. They
could but just discern her on a pointed rock far off, and, hastening to
the spot, perceived her standing with a newly-dropped kid, which she
was defending from a fox. The enemy turned round and round to lay hold
of his prey, but the goat presented her horns in every direction. The
youngest boy was despatched to get assistance to attack the fox, and
the eldest, hallooing and throwing up stones, sought to intimidate him
as he climbed to rescue his charge. The fox seemed well aware that the
child could not execute his threats; he looked at him one instant, and
then renewed the assault, till, quite impatient, he made a resolute
effort to seize the kid. Suddenly the whole three disappeared, and were
soon found at the bottom of the precipice. The goat's horns were fast
into the back of the fox; the kid lay stretched beside her. It is
supposed the fox had fixed his teeth in the kid, for its neck was
lacerated; but when the faithful mother inflicted a death-wound upon
her mortal enemy, he probably staggered, and brought his victims with
him over the rock.

Dr. Clarke, in his "Travels in Palestine," relates the following: "Upon
our road we met an Arab with a goat, which he led about the country for
exhibition, in order to gain a livelihood. He had taught this animal,
while he accompanied its movements with a song, to mount upon little
cylindrical blocks of wood, placed successively one above the other,
and in shape resembling the dice-boxes belonging to a backgammon-table.
In this manner, the goat stood first on the top of one cylinder, and
then upon the top of two, and afterwards of three, four, five, and six,
until it remained balanced upon the top of them all, elevated several
feet from the ground, and with its feet collected upon a single point,
without throwing down the disjointed fabric upon which it stood. The
diameter of the upper cylinder, on which its feet ultimately remained
until the Arab had ended his ditty, was only two inches, and the length
of each was six inches."

We are told by a late traveller that the Spaniards do not milk, and
then distribute to their customers, in the same manner as with us, but
drive their flock of goats to the residence of each customer, and then
milk and furnish according to contract. "I was looking out of the
window of the dining-room of my hotel one morning; there were at least
forty goats, young and old, and the old man who managed the affair
seemed hard pushed to get our regular supply. He had to go over the
whole flock once, and some twice, before he could completely fulfil his
contract. After carrying in his milk, he came to the door and uttered a
few Spanish words, and in an instant the whole moved off, the herdsman
bringing up the rear. They moved at the word of command much quicker,
and marched off in better order, than do our militia."


THE SHEEP.

Of this useful creature there are many varieties, all of which are
supposed to have sprung from the argali, which is found in Asia,
Europe, and America.

_Anecdotes._--The house of the celebrated Dr. Cotton, of Massachusetts,
stood on an eminence, with a garden sloping down in front, filled with
fruit-trees. At the foot of the garden was a fence, and in a straight
line with the fence was an old well-curb. Mr. Cotton kept a great many
sheep, and one day these uneasy creatures took it into their heads to
get a taste of their master's fruit. But the minister had another mind
about the matter, and sallied out to chastise the marauders. These were
very much alarmed; and, according to their usual habit, all followed
their leader to escape. The well-curb being the lowest part of the
barrier which presented itself to the retreating animal, over he
leaped, and down he went to the very bottom of the well, and after him
came several of his followers, till it was in danger of being choked up
by the silly sheep. Dr. Cotton leaped over the barrier himself, and
prevented the rest from destruction. As for those in the well, they
humbly stretched out their forefeet to their master, and bleated
piteously, as if petitioning him to release them. "Don't be in haste,"
quietly replied the good pastor: "wait patiently till I go to the house
for a rope--then I will try to save you." He was as good as his word;
he fastened the rope around their bodies, and drew them one by one out
of the water.

"There are few things," says Hogg, "more amusing than a sheep-shearing.
We send out all the lambs to the hill, and then, as fast as the ewes
are shorn, we send them to find their young ones. The moment that a
lamb hears its dam's voice, it rushes from the crowd to meet her; but
instead of finding the rough, well-clad, comfortable mamma, which it
left a few hours ago, it meets a poor, naked, shivering, most
deplorable-looking creature. It wheels about, and, uttering a loud,
tremulous bleat of despair, flies from the frightful vision. The
mother's voice arrests its flight--it returns--flies and returns
again--generally for a dozen times, before the reconciliation is fairly
made up."

The following pleasing anecdote of the power of music is given by the
celebrated Haydn: "In my early youth," says he, "I went with some other
young people equally devoid of care, one morning during the extreme
heat of summer, to seek for coolness and fresh air on one of the lofty
mountains which surround the Lago Maggiore, in Lombardy. Having reached
the middle of the ascent by daybreak, we stopped to contemplate the
Borromean Isles, which were displayed under our feet, in the middle of
the lake, when we were surrounded by a large flock of sheep, which were
leaving their fold to go to the pasture.

"One of our party, who was no bad performer on the flute, and who
always carried the instrument with him, took it out of his pocket. 'I
am going,' said he, 'to turn Corydon; let us see whether Virgil's sheep
will recognize their pastor.' He began to play. The sheep and goats,
which were following one another towards the mountain, with their heads
hanging down, raised them at the first sound of the flute, and all,
with a general and hasty movement, turned to the side from whence the
agreeable noise proceeded. They gradually flocked round the musician,
and listened with motionless attention. He ceased playing, and the
sheep did not stir.

"The shepherd with his staff now obliged them to move on; but no sooner
did the fluter begin again to play, than his innocent auditors again
returned to him. The shepherd, out of patience, pelted them with clods
of earth, but not one of them would move. The fluter played with
additional skill; the shepherd fell into a passion, whistled, scolded,
and pelted the poor creatures with stones. Such as were hit by them
began to march, but the others still refused to stir. At last, the
shepherd was forced to entreat our Orpheus to stop his magic sounds;
the sheep then moved off, but continued to stop at a distance as often
as our friend resumed the agreeable instrument.

"The tune he played was nothing more than a favorite air, at that time
performing at the Opera in Milan. As music was our continual
employment, we were delighted with our adventure; we reasoned upon it
the whole day, and concluded that physical pleasure is the basis of all
interest in music."

A gentleman, while passing through a lonely district of the Highlands,
observed a sheep hurrying towards the road before him, and bleating
most piteously. On approaching nearer, it redoubled its cries, looked
in his face, and seemed to implore his assistance. He alighted, left
his gig, and followed the sheep to a field in the direction whence it
came. There, in a solitary cairn, at a considerable distance from the
road, the sheep halted, and the traveller found a lamb completely
wedged in betwixt two large stones of the cairn, and struggling feebly
with its legs uppermost. He instantly extricated the sufferer, and
placed it on the greensward, while the mother poured forth her thanks
and joy in a long-continued and significant strain.


THE OX.

There are many varieties of the domestic ox or cow, all of which are
supposed to have sprung from a species still found wild in Europe and
Asia. The herds of wild cattle in North and South America are the
progeny of animals brought hither by the Spanish settlers.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--The following account is from the journal
of a Sante Fe trader: "Our encampment was in a beautiful plain. Our
cattle were shut up in the pen with the wagons; and our men were, with
the exception of the guard, all wrapped in a peaceful slumber,--when
all of a sudden, about midnight, a tremendous uproar was heard, which
caused every man to start in terror from his couch, with arms in hand.
Some animal, it appeared, had taken fright at a dog, and, by a sudden
start, set all around him in violent motion. The panic spread
simultaneously through the pen; and a scene of rattle, clash, and
'lumbering' succeeded, which far surpassed every thing we had yet
witnessed. A general _stampede_ was the result. Notwithstanding the
wagons were tightly bound together, wheel to wheel, with ropes or
chains, the oxen soon burst their way out; and, though mostly yoked in
pairs, they went scampering over the plains. All attempts to stop them
were in vain; but early the next morning we set out in search of them,
and recovered all the oxen, except half a dozen." Similar cases of
panic are frequently described by travellers upon the western prairies.

The cattle of South America, especially in the neighborhood of Buenos
Ayres, are said to give indications of approaching rain, before the
signs of it are visible in the atmosphere. A traveller relates that, in
passing from this place, the weather had been long dry, almost every
spring had failed, and the negroes were sent in all directions to
discover fountains. Soon after, the cattle began to stretch their necks
to the west, and to snuff in a singular manner through their noses,
which they held very high in the air. Not a cloud was then seen, nor
the slightest breath of wind felt. But the cattle proceeded, as if
seized with a sudden madness, to scamper about, then to gather
together, squeezing closer and closer, and snuffing as before. While he
was wondering what was to be the result of such extravagant motions, a
black cloud rose above the mountains, thunder and lightning followed,
the rain fell in torrents, and the cattle were soon enabled to quench
their thirst on the spot where they stood.

There are many anecdotes which show that the ox, or cow, has a musical
ear. The carts in Corunna, in Spain, make so loud and disagreeable a
creaking with their wheels, for the want of oil, that the governor once
issued an order to have them greased; but the carters petitioned that
this might not be done, as the oxen liked the sound, and would not draw
so well without their accustomed music.

Professor Bell assures us that he has often, when a boy, tried the
effect of the flute on cows, and has always observed that it produced
great apparent enjoyment. Instances have been known of the fiercest
bulls being calmed into gentleness by music.

It is probable that the old rhyme had its origin in reality:--

    "There was a piper had a cow,
      And nothing had to give her:
    He took his pipe and played a tune--
      'Consider, cow, consider.'"

A correspondent of the Penny Magazine says that, while on a visit to
the country-house of a lady, it one day happened that they were passing
the cow-house just at the time when the dairymaid was driving home the
cows, to be milked. They all passed in quietly enough, with the
exception of one, which stood lowing at the door, and resisted every
effort of the dairymaid to induce her to enter. When the maid was
interrogated as to the cause of this obstinacy, she attributed it to
pride; and when surprise was expressed at this, she explained that,
whenever any of the other cows happened to get before her, this
particular cow would seem quite affronted, and would not enter at all,
unless the others were turned out again. This statement having excited
curiosity, the maid was desired to redouble her exertions to induce the
cow to enter; on which she chased the animal through every corner of
the yard, but without success, until she at last desisted, from want of
breath, declaring that there was no other remedy than to turn out the
other cows. She was then permitted to make the experiment; and no
sooner were the others driven out, than in walked the gratified cow,
with a stately air--her more humble-minded companions following in her
rear.


THE BISON.

This animal is peculiar to North America, and wanders in vast herds
over the western plains. They are much attracted by the soft, tender
grass, which springs up after a fire has spread over the prairie. In
winter, they scrape away the snow with their feet, to reach the grass.
The bulls and cows live in separate herds for the greater part of the
year; but at all seasons, one or two bulls generally accompany a large
herd of cows. The bison is in general a shy animal, and takes to flight
instantly on winding an enemy, which the acuteness of its sense of
smell enables it to do from a great distance. They are less wary when
they are assembled together in numbers, and will then often blindly
follow their leaders, regardless of, or trampling down, the hunters
posted in their way. It is dangerous for the sportsman to show himself
after having wounded one, for it will pursue him, and, although its
gait may be heavy and awkward, it will have no difficulty in overtaking
the fleetest runner.

_Anecdotes._--Many instances might be mentioned of the pertinacity
with which this animal pursues his revenge. We are told of a hunter
having been detained for many hours in a tree by an old bull, which had
taken its post below, to watch him. When it contends with a dog, it
strikes violently with its fore feet, and in that way proves more than
a match for an English bull-dog. The favorite Indian method of killing
the bison, is by riding up to the fattest of the herd on horseback, and
shooting it with an arrow. When a large party of hunters are engaged in
this way, the spectacle is very imposing, and the young men have many
opportunities of displaying their skill and agility. The horses appear
to enjoy the sport as much as their riders, and are very active in
eluding the shock of the animal, should it turn on its pursuer. The
most common method, however, of shooting the bison, is by crawling
towards them from to leeward; and in favorable places, great numbers
are taken in pounds. When the bison runs, it leans very much first to
one side, for a short space of time, and then to the other, and so on
alternately.

When the Indians determine to destroy bisons, as they frequently do, by
driving them over a precipice, one of their swiftest-footed and most
active young men is selected, who is disguised in a bison skin, having
the head, ears, and horns adjusted on his own head, so as to make the
deception very complete; and, thus accoutred, he stations himself
between the bison herd and some of the precipices that often extend for
several miles along the rivers. The Indians surround the herd as nearly
as possible, when, at a given signal, they show themselves, and rush
forward with loud yells. The animals being alarmed, and seeing no way
open but in the direction of the disguised Indian, run towards him, and
he, taking to flight, dashes on to the precipice, where he suddenly
secures himself in some previously ascertained crevice. The foremost of
the herd arrives at the brink--there is no possibility of retreat, no
chance of escape; the foremost may for an instant shrink with terror,
but the crowd behind, who are terrified by the approaching hunters,
rush forward with increasing impetuosity, and the aggregated force
hurls them successively into the gulf, where certain death awaits them.




ORDER X.

CETACEA,

THE WHALE KIND.


This order contains a class of animals which live in the water, propel
themselves by fins, and have the general form of fishes; yet they are
viviparous, and suckle their young; in these respects forming a
striking contrast to all the other finny inhabitants of the wave. The
principal species are the dolphin, grampus, porpoise, and whale. The
latter is remarkable as being by far the largest creature known to the
animal kingdom.


THE DOLPHIN.

This animal usually swims in troops, and its motions in the water are
performed with such wonderful rapidity, that the French sailors call it
_la flèche de la mer_, or the sea-arrow. St. Pierre, in his "Voyage to
the Isle of France," assures us that he saw a dolphin swim with
apparent ease round the vessel in which he was sailing, though it was
going at the rate of about six miles an hour. A shoal of dolphins
followed the ships of Sir Richard Hawkins upwards of a thousand
leagues. They were known to be the same, from the wounds they
occasionally received from the sailors. They are greedy of almost any
kind of scraps that are thrown overboard, and consequently are often
caught by means of large iron hooks, baited with pieces of fish and
garbage.

The bounding and gambolling of dolphins has attracted the attention of
writers and poets in all ages, and is described as being extremely
beautiful.

The ancients believed that dolphins attended all cases of shipwreck,
and transported the mariners in safety to the shore. Piroetes, having
made captive Arion, the poet, at length determined on throwing him
overboard; and it is said that he escaped in safety to the shore on the
back of a dolphin.

The poet says,--

    "Kind, generous dolphins love the rocky shore,
    Where broken waves with fruitless anger roar.
    But though to sounding shores they curious come,
    Yet dolphins count the boundless sea their home.
    Nay, should these favorites forsake the main,
    Neptune would grieve his melancholy reign.
    The calmest, stillest seas, when left by them,
    Would awful frown, and all unjoyous seem.
    But when the darling frisks his wanton play,
    The waters smile, and every wave looks gay."


THE GRAMPUS.

This inhabitant of the deep is from twenty to twenty-five feet in
length, and seems to cherish a mortal spite against the whale. It
possesses the strong affection for its young common to this order. One
of the poems of Waller is founded upon the following incident: A
grampus in England, with her cub, once got into an arm of the sea,
where, by the desertion of the tide, they were enclosed on every side.
The men on shore saw their situation, and ran down upon them with such
weapons as they could at the moment collect. The poor animals were soon
wounded in several places, so that all the immediately surrounding
water was stained with their blood. They made many efforts to escape;
and the old one, by superior strength, forced itself over the shallow,
into a deep of the ocean. But though in safety herself, she would not
leave her young one in the hands of assassins. She therefore again
rushed in, and seemed resolved, since she could not prevent, at least
to share, the fate of her offspring: the tide coming in, however,
conveyed them both off in triumph.


THE PORPOISE.

This creature is familiar to every one who has been at sea, or who has
frequented the bays and harbors along our coast. It may often be seen
in troops gambolling in the water, and seeming like a drove of black
hogs, with their backs above the waves. It is imagined by the sailors
that they are the most sportive just before a storm. The following
method is adopted for taking them on the banks of the St. Lawrence:
When the fishing season arrives, the people collect together a great
number of sallow twigs, or slender branches of other trees, and stick
them pretty firmly into the sand-banks of the river, which at low water
are left dry; this is done on the side towards the river, forming a
long line of twigs at moderate distances, which at the upper end is
connected with the shore, an opening being left at the lower end, that
they may enter. As the tide rises, it covers the twigs, so as to keep
them out of sight: the porpoise, in quest of his prey, gets within the
line; when those who placed the snare rush out in numbers, properly
armed, and, while in this defenceless state, they overpower him with
ease.


THE WHALE.

Of this monster of the deep there are several species--as the Great
Whale, which is seventy or eighty feet in length; the Spermaceti Whale,
which is somewhat smaller, &c. They frequent various seas, and are most
common in cold latitudes.

To the Greenlanders, as well as the natives of more southern climates,
the whale is an animal of essential importance; and these people spend
much time in fishing for it. When they set out on their whale-catching
expeditions, they dress themselves in their best apparel, fancying
that, if they are not cleanly and neatly clad, the whale, who detests a
slovenly and dirty garb, would immediately avoid them. In this manner
about fifty persons, men and women, set out together in one of their
large boats. The women carry along with them their needles, and other
implements, to mend their husbands' clothes, in case they should be
torn, and to repair the boat, if it happen to receive any damage. When
the men discover a whale, they strike it with their harpoons, to which
are fastened lines or straps two or three fathoms long, made of
seal-skin, having at the end a bag of a whole seal-skin, blown up. The
huge animal, by means of the inflated bag, is in some degree compelled
to keep near the surface of the water. When he is fatigued, and rises,
the men attack him with their spears till he is killed.

The affection and fidelity of the male and female are very great.
Anderson informs us that some fishermen having harpooned one of two
whales that were in company together, the wounded animal made a long
and terrible resistance; it upset a boat containing three men with a
single blow of its tail, by which all went to the bottom. The other
still attended its companion, and lent it every assistance, till at
last the one that was struck sank under its wounds; while its faithful
associate, disdaining to survive the loss, with great bellowing,
stretched itself upon the dead animal, and shared its fate.

The whale is remarkable also for its attachment to its young, and may
be frequently seen urging and assisting them to escape from danger,
with the most unceasing care and fondness. They are not less remarkable
for strong feeling of sociality and attachment to one another. This is
carried to so great an extent, that, where one female of a herd is
attacked or wounded, her faithful companions will remain around her to
the last moment, until they are wounded themselves. This act of
remaining by a wounded companion is called "heaving to," and whole
"schools," or herds, have been destroyed by dexterous management, when
several ships have been in company, wholly from their possessing this
remarkable disposition.

In the year 1814, an English harpooner struck a cub, in hopes of
attracting the attention of the mother. When the young one was wounded,
the whale rose to the surface, seized the cub, and dragged a hundred
fathoms of line from the boat with great velocity. She again rose to
the surface, and dashed furiously about, seemingly deeply concerned for
the fate of her young one. Although closely pursued, she did not again
descend; and, regardless of the surrounding danger, continued in this
state, till she received three harpoons, and was at length killed.

There are few incidents in which the enterprise and power of man are
more strikingly displayed than in the chase and capture of the whale.
It would be easy to fill a volume with thrilling tales of adventure in
this hazardous vocation. One of the most curious occurrences upon
record, in relation to the whale fishery, happened to a Nantucket ship
some years since in the Pacific Ocean. An attack having been made upon
a young whale, the dam went to a distance, and, turning toward the
ship, came against the bow with a terrific force, which beat it in, and
the vessel sank, only allowing time for the hands to get into the boat.
In this they roamed upon the ocean for several weeks, and, when
emaciated to the last degree by fatigue and privation, they were
finally picked up and saved.




CLASS II. AVES.... BIRDS.


It is evident that this class of animals are generally destined to live
a portion of their time in the air, and to perch upon trees. The
scientific naturalist is struck with admiring wonder when he comes to
examine the adaptation of these creatures to their modes of life. The
ingenuity of contrivance, in giving strength, yet lightness, to the
frame of the bird, is perhaps unequalled in the whole compass of
animated nature. Nor are the feathered races less interesting to common
observers. They are associated in the mind with all that is romantic
and beautiful in scenery. Their mysterious emigrations, at stated
seasons, from land to land; their foresight of calm and storm; their
melody and beauty; and that wonderful construction by which some of
them are fitted for land and air, and others for swimming,--these
contribute to render them an unfailing source of interest to mankind at
large.

The birds are divided into six orders, under each of which we shall
notice a few of the more prominent species.




ORDER I.

ACCIPITRES,

BIRDS OF PREY.


VULTURES.

The CONDOR.--This is not only the largest of vultures, but the largest
known bird of flight. It is common in the regions of the Andes, in
South America, and is occasionally found as far north as the Rocky
Mountains of the United States. Nuttall gives us the following
characteristic sketch of this fierce and formidable bird:--

"A pair of condors will attack a cougar, a deer, or a llama: pursuing
it for a long time, they will occasionally wound it with their bills
and claws, until the unfortunate animal, stifled, and overcome with
fatigue, extends its tongue and groans; on which occasion the condor
seizes this member, being a very tender and favorite morsel, and tears
out the eyes of its prey, which at length falls to the earth and
expires. The greedy bird then gorges himself, and rests, in stupidity
and almost gluttonous inebriation, upon the highest neighboring rocks.
He can then be easily taken, as he is so gorged that he cannot fly."

_Vultures in Africa._--Mr. Pringle describes these birds as follows:
"They divide with the hyænas the office of carrion scavengers; and the
promptitude with which they discover and devour every dead carcass is
truly surprising. They also instinctively follow any band of hunters,
or party of men travelling, especially in solitary places, wheeling in
circles high in the air, ready to pounce down upon any game that may be
shot and not instantly secured, or the carcass of any ox, or other
animal, that may perish on the road. In a field of battle, no one ever
buries the dead; the vultures and beasts of prey relieve the living of
that trouble."

TURKEY BUZZARD and CARRION CROW.--These are two small species of
vulture, common in our Southern States, and may be often seen in the
cities, prowling for such offals as may fall in their way. Wilson
furnishes us with the following sketch: "Went out to Hampstead this
forenoon. A horse had dropped down in the street, in convulsions; and
dying, it was dragged out to Hampstead, and skinned. The ground, for a
hundred yards beyond it, was black with carrion crows; many sat on the
tops of sheds, fences, and houses within sight; sixty or eighty in the
opposite side of a small run. I counted, at one time, two hundred and
thirty-seven; but I believe there were more, besides several in the air
over my head, and at a distance. I ventured cautiously within thirty
yards of the carcass, which three or four dogs, and twenty or thirty
vultures, were busily tearing and devouring. Seeing them take no
notice, I ventured nearer, till I was within ten yards, and sat down on
the bank. On observing that they did not heed me, I stole so close that
my feet were within one yard of the horse's legs, and I again sat down.
They all slid aloof a few feet; but seeing me quiet, they soon returned
as before. As they were often disturbed by the dogs, I ordered the
latter home: my voice gave no alarm to the vultures. As soon as the
dogs departed, the vultures crowded in such numbers, that I counted, at
one time, thirty-seven on and around the carcass, with several within;
so that scarcely an inch of it was visible."


HAWKS.

The PEREGRINE FALCON.--Of this species, so celebrated, in former times,
for being used in the noble sport of falconry, Mr. Selby gives us an
interesting anecdote. "In exercising my dogs upon the moors, previous
to the shooting season," says he, "I observed a large bird, of the hawk
genus, hovering at a distance, which, upon approaching it, I knew to be
a peregrine falcon. Its attention was now drawn towards the dogs, and
it accompanied them whilst they beat the surrounding ground. Upon their
having found and sprung a brood of grouse, the falcon immediately gave
chase, and struck a young bird before they had proceeded far upon the
wing. My shouts and rapid advance prevented it from securing its prey.
The issue of this attempt, however, did not deter the falcon from
watching our subsequent movements, and, another opportunity soon
offering, it again gave chase, and struck down two birds, by two
rapidly repeated blows, one of which it secured, and bore off in
triumph."

_Fatal Conflict._--Le Vaillant gives an account of an engagement
between a falcon and a snake. "When this bird attacks a serpent, it
always carries the point of one of its wings forward, in order to parry
the venomous bites. Sometimes it seizes its prey and throws it high in
the air, thus wearying it out. In the present instance, the battle was
obstinate, and conducted with equal address on both sides. The serpent
at length endeavored to regain his hole; while the bird, guessing his
design, threw herself before him. On whatever side the reptile
endeavored to escape, the enemy still appeared before him. Rendered
desperate, he resolved on a last effort. He erected himself boldly, to
intimidate the bird, and, hissing dreadfully, displayed his menacing
throat, inflamed eyes, and head swollen with rage and venom. The
falcon, for one moment, seemed intimidated, but soon returned to the
charge, and, covering her body with one of her wings as a buckler, she
struck her enemy with the bony protuberance of the other. The serpent
at last staggered and fell. The conqueror then fell upon him to
despatch him, and with one stroke of her beak laid open his skull."

The KESTREL.--Selby gives us the following curious account of this
small European species of falcon. "I had," says he, "the pleasure, this
summer, of seeing the kestrel engaged in an occupation entirely new to
me--hawking after cockchaffers late in the evening. I watched him
through a glass, and saw him dart through a swarm of the insects, seize
one in each claw, and eat them whilst flying. He returned to the charge
again and again."

An extraordinary spectacle was exhibited, in 1828, in the garden of Mr.
May, of Uxbridge, in the instance of a tame male hawk sitting on three
hen's eggs. The same bird hatched three chickens the year before; but
being irritated by some person, it destroyed them. It also hatched one
chicken, in the year above mentioned, which was placed with another
brood.

The SPARROW HAWK.--A remarkable instance of the boldness of this bird
was witnessed at Market Deeping, England, one Sunday. Just as the
congregation were returning from divine service in the afternoon, a
hawk of this species made a stoop at a swallow which had alighted in
the centre of the church; and, notwithstanding the surrounding
spectators, and the incessant twitterings of numbers of the victim's
friends, the feathered tyrant succeeded in bearing his prey
triumphantly into the air.

The BUZZARD.--Of this common species of hawk, Buffon tells us the
following story: "A buzzard that had been domesticated in France
exhibited much attachment to his master, attending him at the
dinner-table, and caressing him with his head and bill. He managed to
conquer all the cats and dogs in the house, seizing their food from
them even when there were several together; if attacked, he would take
wing, with a tone of exultation. He had a singular antipathy to red
caps, which he dexterously snatched off the heads of the working men
without being perceived. He likewise purloined wigs in the same manner;
and, after carrying this strange booty off to the tallest tree, he left
them there without injury. Although he sometimes attacked the
neighboring poultry, he lived on amicable terms with those of his
master, bathing even among the chickens and ducklings without doing
them any injury."


THE EAGLE.

Of this bird, which seems to stand at the head of the feathered race,
as does the lion at the head of quadrupeds, there are many
species--among which, the sea eagle, the bald eagle, the Washington,
and the golden eagle, hold prominent places.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--Several instances have been recorded of
children being seized and carried off, by eagles, to their young. In
the year 1737, in the parish of Norderhouss, in Norway, a boy, somewhat
more than two years old, was running from the house to his parents, who
were at work in the fields at no great distance, when an eagle pounced
upon and flew off with him in their sight. It was with inexpressible
grief and anguish that they beheld their child dragged away, but their
screams and efforts were in vain.

We are told that, in the year 1827, as two boys, the one seven and the
other five years old, were amusing themselves in a field, in the state
of New York, in trying to reap during the time that their parents were
at dinner, a large eagle came sailing over them, and with a swoop
attempted to seize the eldest, but luckily missed him. The bird, not at
all dismayed, sat on the ground at a short distance, and in a few
moments repeated the attempt. The bold little fellow defended himself
with the sickle in his hand, and, when the bird rushed upon him, he
struck it. The sickle entered under the left wing, went through the
ribs, and, penetrating the liver, instantly proved fatal.

A gentleman, visiting a friend's house in Scotland, went to see a nest
which had been occupied by eagles for several summers. There was a
stone near it, upon which, when there were young ones, there were
always to be found grouse, partridges, ducks, and other game, beside
kids, fawns, and lambs. As these birds kept such an excellent
storehouse, the owner said that he was in the habit, when he had
unexpected company, of sending his servants to see what his neighbors,
the eagles, had to spare, and they scarcely ever returned without some
dainty dishes for the table; game of all kinds being better for having
been kept. When the servants took away any quantity of provisions from
the stone larder, the eagles lost no time in bringing in new supplies.

As some gentlemen were once hunting in Ireland, a large eagle hastily
descended and seized their terrier. This being observed by some of the
party, they encouraged the dog, who, turning on the eagle as it
continued to soar within a few feet of the ground, brought it down by
seizing its wing, and held it fast till the gentlemen secured it.

Sir H. Davy gives us the following: "I once saw a very interesting
sight, above one of the crags of Ben-Nevis, as I was going in the
pursuit of game. Two parent eagles were teaching their offspring--two
young birds--the manoeuvres of flight. They began by rising to the
top of a mountain in the eye of the sun; it was about midday, and
bright for this climate. They at first made small circles, and the
young birds imitated them; they then paused on their wings, waiting
till they had made their first flight. They then took a second and
larger gyration, always rising towards the sun, and enlarging their
circle of flight, so as to make a gradually ascending spiral. The young
ones slowly followed, apparently flying better as they mounted; and
they continued this sublime kind of exercise, always rising, till they
were mere points in the air, and the young ones were lost, and
afterwards their parents, to our aching sight."

Not long since, a man in Connecticut shot an eagle of the largest kind.
The bird fell to the ground, and being only wounded, the man carried
him home alive. He took good care of him, and he soon got quite well.
He became quite attached to the place where he was taken care of, and
though he was permitted to go at large, and often flew away to a
considerable distance, he would always come back again.

He used to take his station in the door-yard in the front of the house,
and, if any well-dressed person came through the yard to the house, the
eagle would sit still and make no objections; but if a ragged person
came into the yard, he would fly at him, seize his clothes with one
claw, hold on to the grass with the other, and thus make him prisoner.

Often was the proprietor of the house called upon to release persons
that had been thus seized by the eagle. It is a curious fact that he
never attacked ragged people going to the house the back way. It was
only when they attempted to enter through the front door that he
assailed them. He had some other curious habits; he did not go out
every day to get breakfast, dinner, and supper; his custom was about
once a week to make a hearty meal, and that was sufficient for six
days. His most common food was the king-bird, of which he would catch
sometimes ten in the course of a few hours, and these would suffice for
his weekly repast.


THE OWL.

Of this numerous family, there are a great variety of species; but
nearly all steal forth at night, preying upon such birds and quadrupeds
as they can master. They are spread over the northern portions of both
continents, and appear in all minds to be associated with ideas of
melancholy and gloom. The owl was anciently an emblem of wisdom; but we
have no evidence that it possesses sagacity in any degree superior to
that of any other member of the feathered family.

Mr. Nuttall gives us the following description of a red owl: "I took
him out of a hollow apple-tree, and kept him several months. A dark
closet was his favorite retreat during the day; in the evening he
became very lively, gliding across the room with a side-long, restless
flight, blowing with a hissing noise, stretching out his neck in a
threatening manner, and snapping with his bill. He was a very expert
mouse-catcher, swallowed his prey whole, and afterwards ejected the
bones, skin, and hair, in round balls. He also devoured large flies. He
never showed any inclination to drink."

The little owl has a cry, when flying, like _poopoo_. Another note,
which it utters sitting, appears so much like the human voice calling
out, _Aimé aimé edmé_, that it deceived one of Buffon's servants, who
lodged in one of the old turrets of a castle; and waking him up at
three o'clock in the morning with this singular cry, the man opened the
window, and called out, "Who's there below? My name is not Edmé, but
Peter!"

A carpenter, passing through a field near Gloucester, England, was
attacked by a barn owl that had a nest of young ones in a tree near the
path. The bird flew at his head; and the man, striking at it with a
tool he had in his hand, missed his blow, upon which the owl repeated
the attack, and, with her talons fastened on his face, tore out one of
his eyes, and scratched him in the most shocking manner.

A gentleman in Yorkshire, having observed the scales of fishes in the
nest of a couple of barn owls that lived in the neighborhood of a lake,
was induced, one moonlight night, to watch their motions, when he was
surprised to see one of the old birds plunge into the water and seize a
perch, which it bore to its young ones.

A party of Scottish Highlanders, in the service of the Hudson's Bay
Company, happened, in a winter journey, to encamp, after nightfall, in
a dense clump of trees, whose dark tops and lofty stems, the growth of
centuries, gave a solemnity to the scene that strongly tended to excite
the superstitious feelings of the Highlanders. The effect was
heightened by the discovery of a tomb, which, with a natural taste
often exhibited by the Indians, had been placed in this secluded spot.
Our travellers, having finished their supper, were trimming their fire
preparatory to retiring to rest, when the slow and dismal notes of the
horned owl fell on the ear with a startling nearness. None of them
being acquainted with the sound, they at once concluded that so
unearthly a voice must be the moaning of the spirit of the departed,
whose repose they supposed they had disturbed by inadvertently making a
fire of some of the wood of which his tomb had been constructed. They
passed a tedious night of fear, and with the first dawn of day, hastily
quitted the ill-omened spot.

Genghis Khan, who was founder of the empire of the Mogul Tartars, being
defeated, and having taken shelter from his enemies, owed his
preservation to a snowy owl, which was perched over the bush in which
he was hid, in a small coppice. His pursuers, on seeing this bird,
never thought it possible he could be near it. Genghis in consequence
escaped, and ever afterwards this bird was held sacred by his
countrymen, and every one wore a plume of its feathers on his head.




ORDER II.

PASSERINÆ.


This order derives its name from _passer_, a sparrow; but the title is
not very appropriate, for it includes not sparrows only, but a variety
of birds greatly differing from them. They have not the violence of
birds of prey, nor are they restricted to a particular kind of food.
They feed mainly on insects, fruit, and grain.


THE SHRIKE, OR BUTCHER-BIRD.

One of these birds had once the boldness to attack two canaries
belonging to a gentleman in Cambridge, Mass., which were suspended, one
fine winter's day, at the window. The poor songsters, in their fear,
fluttered to the side of the cage, and one of them thrust its head
through the bars of its prison; at this moment the wily butcher tore
off its head, and left the body dead in the cage. The cause of the
accident seemed wholly mysterious, till, on the following day, the bold
hunter was found to have entered the room with a view to despatch the
remaining bird; and but for a timely interference, it would instantly
have shared the fate of its companion.

This bird has been observed to adopt an odd stratagem. It sticks
grasshoppers upon the sharp, thorny branches of trees, for the purpose
of decoying the smaller birds, that feed on insects, into a situation
whence it could dart on them.


THE KING-BIRD.

Mr. Nuttall, who domesticated one of these birds, gives us the
following account: "His taciturnity, and disinclination to
familiarities, were striking traits. His restless, quick, and
side-glancing eye enabled him to follow the motions of his insect prey,
and to know the precise moment of attack. The snapping of his bill, as
he darted after them, was like the shutting of a watch-case. He readily
caught morsels of food in his bill. Berries he swallowed whole. Large
grasshoppers and beetles he pounded and broke on the floor. Some very
cold nights, he had the sagacity to retire under the shelter of a
depending bed-quilt. He was pleased with the light of lamps, and would
eat freely at any hour of the night."


THE CEDAR-BIRD.

This beautiful member of the feathered family flies in flocks, and
makes himself familiar with the cherry trees when their fruit is ripe.
Though his habits are timid and somewhat shy, he appears to possess an
affectionate disposition. Mr. Nuttall tells us that one among a row of
these birds, seated one day upon a branch, was observed to catch an
insect, and offer it to his associate, who very disinterestedly passed
it to the next, and, each delicately declining the offer, the morsel
proceeded backwards and forwards many times before it was appropriated.


THE SCARLET TANAGER.

Wilson gives us the following interesting anecdote of one of these
birds: "Passing through an orchard one morning, I caught a young
tanager that had apparently just left the nest. I carried it with me to
the Botanic Garden, put it in a cage, and hung it on a large pine-tree
near the nest of two orioles, hoping that their tenderness might induce
them to feed the young bird. But the poor orphan was neglected, till at
last a tanager, probably its own parent, was seen fluttering round the
cage, and endeavoring to get in. Finding this impracticable, it flew
off, and soon returned with food in its bill, feeding the young one
till sunset: it then took up its lodgings on the higher branches of the
same tree. In the morning, as soon as day broke, he was again seen most
actively engaged; and so he continued for three or four days. He then
appeared extremely solicitous for the liberation of his charge, using
every expression of anxiety, and every call and invitation that nature
had put in his power, for him to come out. Unable to resist this
powerful pleader, I opened the cage, took out the prisoner, and
restored it to its parent, who, with notes of great exultation,
accompanied its flight to the woods."


THE MOCKING-BIRD.

The mocking-bird selects the place for his nest according to the region
in which he resides. A solitary thorn bush, an almost impenetrable
thicket, an orange or cedar-tree, or a holly bush, are favorite spots;
and sometimes he will select a low apple or pear-tree. The nest is
composed of dry twigs, straw, wool, and tow, and lined with fine
fibrous roots. During the time when the female is sitting, neither cat,
dog, animal, or man, can approach the nest without being attacked.

But the chief vengeance of the bird is directed against his mortal
enemy, the black snake. Whenever this reptile is discovered, the male
darts upon it with the rapidity of an arrow, dexterously eluding its
bite, and striking it violently and incessantly upon the head. The
snake soon seeks to escape; but the intrepid bird redoubles his
exertions; and as the serpent's strength begins to flag, he seizes it,
and lifts it up from the ground, beating it with his wings; and when
the business is completed, he returns to his nest, mounts the summit of
the bush, and pours out a torrent of song, in token of victory.

His strong, musical voice is capable of every modulation. His matin
notes are bold and full, consisting of short expressions of two, three,
or five and six syllables, generally interspersed with imitations, all
of them uttered with great emphasis and rapidity. His expanded wings,
and tail glistening with white, and the buoyant gayety of his action,
arrest the eye as his song does the ear.

The mocking-bird loses little of the power and energy of his music by
confinement. When he commences his career of song, it is impossible to
stand by uninterested. He whistles for the dog; Cæsar starts up, wags
his tail, and runs to meet his master. He squeaks out like a hurt
chicken, and the hen hurries about with hanging wings and bristling
feathers, clucking to protect her injured brood. The barking of the
dog, the mewing of the cat, the creaking of the passing wheelbarrow,
follow with great truth and rapidity. He repeats the tune taught him by
his master, though of considerable length, fully and faithfully. He
runs over the quiverings of the canary, and the clear whistlings of the
red-bird, with such superior execution and effect, that the mortified
songsters feel their own inferiority, while he seems to triumph in
their defeat by redoubling his exertions.


THE BALTIMORE ORIOLE.

A correspondent of Wilson furnishes the following account of an oriole:
"This bird I took from the nest when very young. I taught it to feed
from my mouth; and it would often alight on my finger, and strike the
end with its bill, until I raised it to my mouth, when it would insert
its bill, to see what I had for it to eat. In winter, spring, and
autumn, it slept in a cage lined with cotton batting. After I had put
it in, if I did not close up the apertures with cotton, it would do so
itself, by pulling the cotton from the sides of the cage till it had
shut up all the apertures; I fed it with sponge cake; and when this
became dry and hard, it would take a piece and drop it into the saucer,
and move it about till it was soft enough to be eaten.

"In very cold weather, the oriole would fly to me, and get under my
cape, and nestle down upon my neck. It often perched upon my finger,
and drew my needle and thread from me when I was sewing. At such times,
if any child approached me and pulled my dress, it would chase after
the offender, with its wings and tail spread, and high resentment in
its eye. In sickness, when I have been confined to the bed, the little
pet would visit my pillow many times during the day, often creeping
under the bed-clothes. At such times, it was always low-spirited. When
it wanted to bathe, it would approach me with a very expressive look,
and shake its wings. On my return home from a call or visit, it would
invariably show its pleasure by a peculiar sound."


THE WREN.

Wilson furnishes us with the following anecdotes of this little
favorite:--

"In the month of June, a mower once hung up his coat under a shed in
the barn: two or three days elapsed before he had occasion to put it on
again. When he did so, on thrusting his arm into the sleeve, he found
it completely filled with rubbish, as he expressed it, and, on
extracting the whole mass, found it to be the nest of a wren,
completely finished, and lined with a large quantity of feathers. In
his retreat he was followed by the forlorn little proprietors, who
scolded him with great vehemence for thus ruining the whole economy of
their household affairs."

"A box fitted up in the window of a room where I slept, was taken
possession of by a pair of wrens. Already the nest was built, and two
eggs laid; when one day, the window being open as well as the room
door, the female wren, venturing too far into the room, was sprung upon
by grimalkin, and instantly destroyed. Curious to know how the survivor
would demean himself, I watched him carefully for several days. At
first he sang with great vivacity for an hour or so; but, becoming
uneasy, went off for half an hour. On his return, he chanted again as
before, went to the top of the house, stable, and weeping willow, that
his mate might hear him; but seeing no appearance of her, he returned
once more, visited the nest, ventured cautiously into the window, gazed
about with suspicious looks, his voice sinking into a low, melancholy
note, as he stretched his neck in every direction.

"Returning to the box, he seemed for some minutes at a loss what to do,
and soon went off, as I thought altogether, for I saw no more of him
that day. Towards the afternoon of the second day, he again made his
appearance, accompanied with a new female, who seemed exceedingly
timorous and shy, and after great hesitation entered the box. At this
moment, the little widower and bridegroom seemed as if he would warble
out his very life with ecstasy of joy. After remaining about half a
minute inside, they began to carry out the eggs, feathers, and some of
the sticks, supplying the place of the two latter with materials of the
same sort, and ultimately succeeded in raising a brood of seven young
ones, all of whom escaped in safety."


THE PURPLE MARTIN.

This well-known bird is a general inhabitant of the United States, and
a particular favorite wherever he takes up his abode. "I never met with
more than one man," says Wilson, "who disliked the martins, and would
not permit them to settle about his house. This was a penurious,
close-fisted German, who hated them because, as he said, 'they ate his
_peas_.' I told him he must certainly be mistaken, as I never knew an
instance of martins eating _peas_; but he replied, with great coolness,
that he had often seen them 'blaying round the hive, and going
_schnip_, _schnap_,' by which I understood that it was his _bees_ that
had been the sufferers; and the charge could not be denied."


THE SWALLOW.

In England, in one corner of the piazza of a house, a swallow had
erected her nest, while a wren occupied a box which was purposely hung
in the centre. They were both much domesticated. The wren became
unsettled in its habits, and formed a design of dislodging the swallow;
and having made an attack, actually succeeded in driving her away.
Impudence gets the better of modesty; and this exploit was no sooner
performed, than the wren removed every part of the materials to her own
box, with the most admirable dexterity. The signs of triumph appeared
very visible; it fluttered with its wings with uncommon velocity, and a
universal joy was perceivable in all its movements. The peaceable
swallow, like the passive Quaker, meekly sat at a small distance, and
never offered the least opposition. But no sooner was the plunder
carried away, than the injured bird went to work with unabated ardor,
and in a few days the depredations were repaired.

A swallow's nest, built in the west corner of a window in England
facing the north, was so much softened by the rain beating against it,
that it was rendered unfit to support the superincumbent load of five
pretty, full-grown swallows. During a storm, the nest fell into the
lower corner of the window, leaving the young brood exposed to all the
fury of the blast. To save the little creatures from an untimely death,
the owner of the house benevolently caused a covering to be thrown over
them, till the severity of the storm was past. No sooner had it
subsided, than the sages of the colony assembled, fluttering round the
window, and hovering over the temporary covering of the fallen nest. As
soon as this careful anxiety was observed, the covering was removed,
and the utmost joy evinced by the group, on finding the young ones
alive and unhurt. After feeding them, the members of this assembled
community arranged themselves into working order. Each division, taking
its appropriate station, commenced instantly to work; and before
nightfall, they had jointly completed an arched canopy over the young
brood in the corner where they lay, and securely covered them against a
succeeding blast. Calculating the time occupied by them in performing
this piece of architecture, it appeared evident that the young must
have perished from cold and hunger before any single pair could have
executed half the job.


THE SKYLARK.

A gentleman was travelling on horseback, a short time since, in
Norfolk, England, when a lark dropped on the pommel of his saddle, and,
spreading its wings in a submissive manner, cowered to him. He stopped
his horse, and sat for some time in astonishment, looking at the bird,
which he supposed to be wounded; but on endeavoring to take it, the
lark crept round him, and placed itself behind: turning himself on the
saddle, to observe it, the poor animal dropped between the legs of the
horse, and remained immovable. It then struck him that the poor thing
was pursued, and, as the last resource, hazarded its safety with him.
The gentleman looked up, and discovered a hawk hovering directly over
them; the poor bird again mounted the saddle, under the eye of its
protector; and the disappointed hawk shifting his station, the little
fugitive, watching his opportunity, darted over the hedge, and was hid
in an instant.


THE TITMOUSE.

During the time of incubation, the natural timidity of birds is greatly
lessened. The following instance, given by W. H. Hill, of Gloucester,
England, illustrates this: "Some time since, a pair of blue titmice
built their nest in the upper part of an old pump, fixing on the pin,
on which the handle worked. It happened that, during the time of
building the nest and laying the eggs, the pump had not been used: when
again set going, the female was sitting, and it was naturally expected
that the motion of the pump-handle would drive her away. The young
brood were hatched safely, however, without any other misfortune than
the loss of part of the tail of the sitting bird, which was rubbed off
by the friction of the pump-handle; nor did they appear disturbed by
the visitors who were frequently looking at them."


THE CANARY-BIRD.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--At a public exhibition of birds, some years
ago, in London, a canary had been taught to act the part of a deserter,
and flew away pursued by two others, who appeared to apprehend him. A
lighted candle being presented to one of them, he fired a small cannon,
and the little deserter fell on one side, as if killed by the shot.
Another bird then appeared with a small wheelbarrow, for the purpose of
carrying off the dead; but as soon as the barrow came near, the little
deserter started to his feet.

"On observing," says Dr. Darwin, "a canary-bird at the house of a
gentleman in Derbyshire, I was told it always fainted away when its
cage was cleaned; and I desired to see the experiment. The cage being
taken from the ceiling, and the bottom drawn out, the bird began to
tremble, and turned quite white about the root of the bill; he then
opened his mouth as if for breath, and respired quick; stood up
straighter on his perch, hung his wing, spread his tail, closed his
eyes, and appeared quite stiff for half an hour, till at length, with
trembling and deep respirations, he came gradually to himself."

A few years since, a lady at Washington had a pair of canaries in a
cage, one of which, the female, at last died. The survivor manifested
the utmost grief; but upon a looking-glass being placed by his side, so
that he could see his image, he took it for his departed friend, and
seemed at once restored to happiness. The details of the story are
given in the following lines:--

    Poor Phil was once a blithe canary--
      But then his mate was at his side;
    His spirits never seemed to vary,
      Till she, one autumn evening, died;--
    And now upon his perch he clung,
      With ruffled plumes and spirits low,
    His carol hushed; or, if he sung,
      'Twas some sad warble of his wo.

    His little mistress came with seed:--
    Alas! he would not, could not, feed.
    She filled his cup with crystal dew;
    She called--she whistled:--'twould not do;
    The little mourner bowed his head,
    And gently peeped--"My mate is dead!"

    Alas, poor Phil! how changed art thou!
    The gayest then, the saddest now.
    The dribbled seed, the limpid wave,
    Would purchase, then, thy sweetest stave;
    Or, if thou hadst some softer spell,
    Thine ear had stolen from the shell
    That sings amid the silver sand
    That circles round thy native land,
    'Twas only when, with wily art,
    Thou sought'st to charm thy partner's heart.
    And she is gone--thy joys are dead--
    Thy music with thy mate is fled!

    Poor bird! upon the roost he sate,
    With drooping wing, disconsolate;
    And as his little mistress gazed,
    Her brimming eyes with tears were glazed.
    In vain she tried each wonted art
    To heal the mourner's broken heart.
    At last she went, with childish thought,
    And to the cage a mirror brought.
    She placed it by the songster's side--
    And, lo! the image seemed his bride!
    Forth from his perch he wondering flew,
    Approached, and gazed, and gazed anew;
    And then his wings he trembling shook,
    And then a circling flight he took;
    And then his notes began to rise,
    A song of triumph, to the skies!
    And since--for many a day and year,
    That blissful bird--the mirror near--
    With what he deems his little wife,
    His partner still--has spent his life:
    Content, if but the image stay,
    Sit by his side, and list his lay!

    Thus fancy oft will bring relief,
    And with a shadow comfort grief.


THE BULFINCH.

A farmer in Scotland had a bulfinch which he taught to whistle some
plaintive old Scottish airs. He reluctantly parted with the bird for a
sum of money, which his narrow circumstances at the time compelled him
to accept of; but inwardly resolved, if fortune should favor him, to
buy it back, cost what it would. At the end of a year or so, a relation
died, leaving him a considerable legacy. Away he went, the very day
after he got intelligence of this pleasant event, and asked the person
who had purchased the bulfinch, if he would sell it again, telling him
to name his own price. The man would not hear of parting with the bird.
The farmer begged just to have a sight of it, and he would be
satisfied. This was readily agreed to; so, as soon as he entered the
room where the bulfinch was kept, he began to whistle one of the fine
old tunes which he had formerly taught it. The bulfinch remained in a
listening attitude for a minute or two, then it grew restless, as if
struggling with some dim recollection,--then it moved joyously to the
side of the cage, and all at once it seemed to identify its old master,
who had no sooner ceased, than it took up the tune, and warbled it with
the tremulous pathos which marked the manner of its teacher. The effect
was irresistible; the poor farmer burst into tears, and the matter
ended by his receiving the bulfinch in a present: but report says, to
his credit, that he insisted on making a present of money, in return.


THE SPARROW.

A few years since, a pair of sparrows, which had built in the thatch
roof of a house at Poole, were observed to continue their visits to the
nest long after the time when the young birds take flight. This unusual
circumstance continued throughout the year; and in the winter, a
gentleman who had all along observed them, determined on investigating
the cause. He therefore mounted a ladder, and found one of the young
ones detained a prisoner, by means of a piece of string, or worsted,
which formed part of the nest, having become accidentally twisted round
its leg. Being thus incapacitated from procuring its own sustenance, it
had been fed by the continued exertions of its parents.

An old man belonging to the neighborhood of Glasgow, who was a soldier
in his youth, mentions, that he became first reconciled to a foreign
country, by observing a sparrow hopping about just as he had seen them
do at home. "Are you here too, freen?" said he to the sparrow. He does
not add that it returned a verbal answer to his exclamatory question;
but he could not help fancying that it looked assent, as if it
understood he was an exile, and wished him to take a lesson of
resignation to circumstances.


THE CROW.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--In the year 1816, a Scotch newspaper states
that a common crow, perceiving a brood of young chickens, fourteen in
number, under the care of a parent hen, picked up one of them; but a
young lady, seeing what had happened, suddenly pulled up the window,
and calling out loudly, the plunderer dropped his prey. In the course
of the day, however, the audacious and calculating robber, accompanied
by thirteen others, came to the place where the chickens were, and each
seizing one, got clearly off with the whole brood at once.

An instance of sagacity in the crow is told by Dr. Darwin. He had a
friend, on the northern coast of Ireland, who noticed above a hundred
crows at once, feeding on mussels. The plan they took to break them
was, each to lift one in its bill, and ascend about thirty or forty
yards in the air, and from thence let the mussels drop upon stones;
thus they secured the flesh of the animal inhabitants.

During the war between Augustus Cæsar and Mark Antony, when the world
looked with anxiety which way Fortune would turn herself, an indigent
man in Rome, in order to be prepared to take advantage of whichever way
she might incline, determined on making a bold hit for his own
advancement; he had recourse, therefore, to the following ingenious
expedient: He applied himself to the training of two crows with such
diligence, that he taught them at length to pronounce distinctly, the
one a salutation to Cæsar, and the other to Antony. When Augustus
returned conqueror, the man went out to meet him, with one of the crows
perched on his hand, which every little while exclaimed, _Salve, Cæsar,
Victor, Imperator!_ Augustus, greatly struck, and delighted with so
novel a circumstance, purchased the bird of the man for a sum which
immediately raised him to opulence.

There is a kind of crow, which is seen in England in flocks, called
the _hooded_ crow. It is said that one or two hundred of them will
sometimes meet together as if upon some fixed plan; and at these times,
a few of them sit with drooping heads, and others look very grave, as
if they were judges, while others still are very bustling and noisy. In
about an hour, the meeting breaks up, when one or two are generally
found dead; and it has been supposed that this meeting is a sort of
trial of some crows who have behaved ill, and who are punished in this
severe way for their bad behavior.


THE RAVEN.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--This bird is very hardy, crafty, and wary.
He is easily domesticated, and is very mischievous, readily catching up
any thing glittering, and hiding it. There is a well-authenticated fact
of a gentleman's butler having missed a great many silver spoons, and
other articles, without being able to detect the thief for some time;
at last he observed a tame raven with one in his mouth, and watched him
to his hiding-place, where he found more than a dozen.

A young raven, fifteen months old, was taken from the nest when very
young, and brought up by a keeper with his dogs. It was so completely
domesticated that it would go out with the keeper, and when it took its
flight farther than usual, at the sound of the whistle it would return
and perch upon a tree or a wall, and watch all his movements. It was no
uncommon thing for it to go to the moors with him, and to return--a
distance of ten or twelve miles. It would even enter a village with the
keeper, partake of the same refreshment, and never leave him until he
returned home.

A gentleman who resided near the New Forest, Hampshire, England, had a
tame raven, which used frequently to hop about the verge of the forest,
and chatter to every one it met. One day, a person travelling through
the forest to Winchester, was much surprised at hearing the following
exclamation: "Fair play, gentlemen! fair play! for God's sake,
gentlemen, fair play!" The traveller, looking round to discover from
whence the voice came, to his great astonishment, beheld no human being
near. But hearing the cry of "fair play" again repeated, he thought it
must proceed from some fellow-creature in distress. He immediately
rushed into that part of the forest from whence the cries came, where,
to his unspeakable astonishment, the first objects he beheld were two
ravens combating a third with great fury, while the sufferer, which
proved to be the tame one aforesaid, kept loudly vociferating, "fair
play;" which so diverted the traveller, that he instantly rescued the
oppressed bird, by driving away his adversaries; and returned highly
pleased with his morning adventure.


THE MAGPIE.

This bird, which is found in Europe, and also in the plains east of the
Rocky Mountains, is remarkable alike for its loquacity and its
disposition to theft--a trait of character which belongs to several
birds of the same genus. Lady Morgan furnishes us with the following
anecdote:--

"A noble lady of Florence resided in a house which still stands
opposite the lofty Doric column which was raised to commemorate the
defeat of Pietro Strozzi, and the taking of Sienna, by the tyrannic
conqueror of both, Cosmo the First. She lost a valuable pearl necklace,
and one of her waiting-women, a very young girl, was accused of the
theft. Having solemnly denied the fact, she was put to the torture,
which was then practised at Florence. Unable to support its terrible
infliction, she acknowledged that 'she was guilty,' and, without
further trial, was hung. Shortly after, Florence was visited by a
tremendous storm; a thunderbolt fell on the figure of Justice, and
split the scales, one of which fell to the earth, and with it fell the
ruins of a magpie's nest, containing the pearl necklace. Those scales
are still the haunts of birds, and I never saw them hovering round
them, without thinking of those 'good old times,' when innocent women
could be first tortured, and then hung, on suspicion."

We are informed by Plutarch of a magpie, belonging to a barber at Rome,
which could imitate every word it heard uttered. It happened one day
that some trumpets were sounded before the shop door, and for some days
afterwards the magpie was quite mute, and appeared pensive and
melancholy. This change in its manners greatly surprised all who knew
it, and it was supposed that the sound of the trumpets had so
completely stunned the poor bird, that it was deprived of both voice
and hearing. It soon appeared, however, that this was not the case; for
Plutarch says, the bird had been all the while occupied in profound
meditation, studying how to imitate the sound of the trumpets, which
had made a deep impression on him; and at last, to the astonishment of
all its friends, it broke its long silence by a very perfect imitation
of the flourish of the trumpets it had heard; observing with great
accuracy all the repetitions, stops, and changes. But this turned out
an unfavorable lesson, for the magpie forgot every thing else, and
never afterwards attempted another imitation but that of the trumpets.


THE HUMMING-BIRD.

The following is from the pen of Wilson: "A nest of young humming-birds
was once brought to me that were nearly fit to fly; one of them flew
out of the nest and was killed. The other was fed with sugar and water,
into which it thrust its bill, sucking it with great avidity. I kept it
upwards of three months, feeding it on sugar and water; gave it fresh
flowers every morning, sprinkled with the liquid, and surrounded the
space in which I kept it with gauze, that it might not injure itself.
It appeared gay, active, and full of spirit, humming from flower to
flower, as if in its native wilds, and always expressed, by its motions
and chirping, great pleasure at seeing fresh flowers introduced into
its cage. Numbers of people visited it from motives of curiosity, and I
took every precaution to preserve it, if possible, through the winter.
Unfortunately, however, it got at large in the room, and, flying about,
so injured itself, that it soon after died."


THE BLUE JAY.

"This elegant bird," says Wilson, "is distinguished as a kind of beau
among the feathered tenants of our woods, by the brilliancy of his
dress. He possesses the mischievous disposition of the jay family, and
he seems particularly fond of exercising his malignant ingenuity
against the owl. No sooner has he discovered the retreat of one of
these, than he summons the whole feathered fraternity to his
assistance, who surround the glimmering _solitaire_, and attack him
from all sides, raising such a shout as might be heard, on a still day,
more than half a mile off. When, in my hunting excursions, I have
passed near this scene of tumult, I have imagined to myself that I
heard the insulting party, venting their respective charges with all
the virulence of a Billingsgate mob; the owl, meanwhile, returning
every compliment with a broad, goggling stare. The war becomes louder
and louder, and the owl, at length, forced to betake himself to flight,
is followed by his whole train of persecutors, until driven beyond the
boundaries of their jurisdiction."

_Anecdotes._--A gentleman in South Carolina gives an account of a blue
jay, which was brought up in his family, that had all the tricks and
loquacity of a parrot; pilfered every thing he could carry off, and hid
them in holes and crevices; answered to his name with great sociability
when called on; could articulate a number of words pretty distinctly;
and when he heard an uncommon noise, or loud talking, seemed impatient
to contribute his share to the general festivity, by a display of all
the oratorical powers he was possessed of.

"Having caught a jay in the winter season," says Mr. Bartram, "I turned
him loose in the greenhouse, and fed him with corn, the heart of which
he was very fond of. The grain being ripe and hard, the bird at first
found a difficulty in breaking it, as it would start from his bill when
he struck it. After looking about, as if considering a moment, he
picked up his grain, carried and placed it close up in a corner on the
shelf, between the wall and a plant-box, where being confined on three
sides, he soon effected his purpose, and continued afterwards to make
use of the same practical expedient."




ORDER III.

SCANSORIÆ,

CLIMBING BIRDS.


THE CUCKOO.

Dr. Jenner gives us the following anecdote: "I found one day the nest
of a hedge-sparrow, which contained a cuckoo's and three
hedge-sparrow's eggs. The next day, I found the bird had hatched, but
the nest now contained only one sparrow, and the cuckoo. What was my
astonishment to observe the young cuckoo, though so newly hatched, in
the act of turning out the young hedge-sparrow! The mode of
accomplishing this was very curious. The little animal, with the
assistance of its rump and wings, contrived to get the bird on its
back, and, making a lodgment for the burden, by elevating its elbows,
clambered with it to the side of the nest till it reached the top,
where resting for a moment, it threw off its load with a jerk, and
quite disengaged it from the nest. It remained in this situation a
short time, feeling about with the extremities of its wings, as if to
be convinced that the business was properly done, and then dropped into
the nest again."


THE WOODPECKER.

The RED-HEADED WOODPECKER.--Of the woodpecker there are several
species; but this is one of the best known. It is, properly speaking, a
bird of passage; though even in the Eastern States individuals are
found during moderate winters, as well as in the states of New York and
Pennsylvania. Notwithstanding the care which this bird takes to place
its young beyond the reach of enemies, within the hollows of trees, yet
there is one deadly foe, against whose depredations neither the height
of the tree nor the depth of the cavity, is the least security. This is
the black snake, who frequently glides up the trunk of the tree, and,
like a skulking savage, enters the woodpecker's peaceful apartment,
devours the eggs, or helpless young, in spite of the cries and
flutterings of the parents, and, if the place is large enough, coils
himself up in the spot they occupied, where he will sometimes remain
several days.

The IVORY-BILLED WOODPECKER.--Wilson says, "I found one of these birds
while travelling in North Carolina. It was slightly wounded in the
wing, and, on being caught, uttered a loudly-reiterated and most
piteous note, exactly like the violent crying of a child, which
terrified my horse very much. It was distressing to hear it. I carried
it with me under cover to Wilmington. In passing through the streets,
its affecting cries surprised every one within hearing, especially the
females, who hurried to the doors and windows with looks of anxiety and
alarm. I rode on, and on arriving at the piazza of the hotel where I
intended to put up, the landlord came forward, and a number of persons
who happened to be there, all equally alarmed at what they heard; this
was greatly increased by my asking whether he could furnish me with
accommodations for myself and baby. The man looked foolish, and the
others stared with astonishment. After diverting myself a few minutes
at their expense, I drew out my woodpecker, and a general laugh took
place. I took him up stairs, and locked him up in my room, and tied him
with a string to the table. I then went out to procure him some food.
On my return, I had the mortification to find that he had entirely
ruined the mahogany table, on which he had wreaked his whole vengeance.
I kept him three days, but, refusing all sustenance, he died, to my
great regret."


THE PARROT.

This is a large genus of birds, consisting of two hundred species,
distinguished by the peculiar structure of the bill, which assists them
in climbing. They are gregarious, have generally very brilliant
plumage, and inhabit warm regions.

_Anecdotes._--The gray parrot often lives to a great age. We are told
by Le Vaillant of one which lived in the family of Mr. Huyser, in
Amsterdam, for thirty-two years; had previously lived forty-one with
that gentleman's uncle; and there can be little doubt that it was two
or three years old at the time of its arrival in Europe. In the day of
its vigor, it used to speak with great distinctness, repeat many
sentences, fetch its master's slippers, call the servants, &c. At the
age of sixty, its memory began to fail. It moulted regularly twice a
year, till the age of sixty-five, when the red feathers of the tail
gave place to yellow ones, after which, no other change of plumage
took place. When Le Vaillant saw it, it was in a state of complete
decrepitude, and, having lost its sight and memory, had lapsed into a
sort of lethargic condition, and was fed at intervals with biscuit
dipped in Madeira.

Leo, son of the Emperor Basilius Macedo, was accused, by a monk, of
having a design upon the life of his father, and was thereupon cast
into prison, from which he was freed through the instrumentality of a
parrot. The emperor, upon a certain occasion, entertained some of the
greatest nobles of his court. They were all seated, when a parrot,
which was hung up in the hall, in a mournful tone cried out, "Alas!
alas! poor Prince Leo!" It is very probable that he had frequently
heard courtiers passing, bewailing the prince's hard fortune in those
terms. He frequently repeated these words, which at last so affected
the courtiers that they could not eat. The emperor observed it, and
entreated them to make a hearty repast; when one of them, with tears in
his eyes, said, "How should we eat, sire, when we are thus reproached
by this bird of our want of duty to your family? The brute animal is
mindful of its lord; and we, that have reason, have neglected to
supplicate your majesty in behalf of the prince, whom we all believe to
be innocent, and to suffer under calumny." The emperor, moved by these
words, commanded them to fetch Leo out of prison, admitted him to his
presence, and restored him, first to his favor, and then to his former
dignities.

Buffon says, "I have seen a parrot very ridiculously employed,
belonging to a distiller who had suffered pretty severely in his
circumstances from an informer that lived opposite him. This bird was
taught to pronounce the ninth commandment,--'Thou shalt not bear false
witness against thy neighbor,' with a very clear, loud, articulate
voice. The bird was generally placed in a cage over against the
informer's house, and delighted the whole neighborhood with its
persevering exhortations."

Some years since, a parrot in Boston, that had been taught to whistle
in the manner of calling a dog, was sitting in his cage at the door of
a shop. As he was exercising himself in this kind of whistle, a large
dog happened to be passing the spot; the animal, imagining that he
heard the call of his master, turned suddenly about, and ran towards
the cage of the parrot. At this critical moment, the bird exclaimed
vehemently, "Get out, you brute!" The astonished dog hastily retreated,
leaving the parrot to enjoy the joke.




ORDER IV.

GALLINACEA,

RESEMBLING THE DOMESTIC HEN.


THE COCK.

The domestic cock is the origin of all the varieties of the domestic
fowl, and is supposed to have come originally from Asia. It was brought
to America by the first settlers.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--A short time since, a farmer in Ohio heard
loud talking and angry words among his fowls, and, being a man of
pacific disposition, bent his course towards the scene of cackling and
confusion. Arrived in the vicinity, he observed his favorite cock
engaged in mortal combat with a striped snake, dealing his blows with
bill and spurs in quick succession, and with true pugilistic skill. But
the wily serpent, well aware that, in order to beat his powerful
antagonist, he must use cunning, seized him by the thigh in the rear.
Thus situated, the cock rose on his wings, and lighted on an
apple-tree, the snake keeping fast hold, and dangling down like a
taglock. It then coiled its tail round a branch of the tree. The cock
tried again to escape, but, not being able to disengage himself, hung
with his head down. In this melancholy situation he was found by the
farmer, who instantly killed the snake, and set chanticleer at liberty.

The following is a remarkable instance of the degree to which the
natural apprehension for her brood may be overcome, in the hen, by the
habit of nursing ducks. A hen, who had reared three broods of ducks in
three successive years, became habituated to their taking the water,
and would fly to a large stone in the middle of the pond, and patiently
and quietly watch her brood as they swam about it. The fourth year she
hatched her own eggs, and finding that her chickens did not take to the
water as the ducklings had done, she flew to the stone in the pond, and
called them to her with the utmost eagerness. This recollection of the
habits of her former charge, though it had taken place a year before,
is strongly illustrative of memory in a hen.

"I have just witnessed," says Count de Buffon, "a curious scene. A
sparrow-hawk alighted in a populous court-yard; a young cock, of this
year's hatching, instantly darted at him, and threw him on his back. In
this situation, the hawk, defending himself with his talons and his
bill, intimidated the hens and turkeys, which screamed tumultuously
around him. After having a little recovered himself, he rose and was
taking wing; when the cock rushed upon him a second time, upset him,
and held him down so long, that he was easily caught by a person who
witnessed the conflict."


THE PHEASANT.

This splendid bird was brought originally from Asia, but it is now
common in Europe, especially in the parks and preserves of England,
where it lives in a wild state.

_Anecdotes._--"It is not uncommon," says Warwick, "to see an old
pheasant feign itself wounded, and run along the ground, fluttering and
crying, before either dog or man, to draw them away from its helpless,
unfledged young ones. As I was hunting with a young pointer, the dog
ran on a brood of very small pheasants; the old bird cried, fluttered,
and ran tumbling along just before the dog's nose, till she had drawn
him to a considerable distance, when she took wing, and flew still
farther off. On this the dog returned to me, near the place where the
young ones were still concealed in the grass. This the old bird no
sooner perceived, than she flew back again to us, settled just before
the dog's nose, and, by rolling and tumbling about, drew off his
attention from her young, thus preserving them a second time."

A turkey cock, a common cock, and a pheasant, were kept in the same
farm-yard. After some time, the turkey was sent away to another farm.
After his departure, the cock and pheasant had a quarrel; the cock
beat, and the pheasant disappeared. In a few days he returned,
accompanied by the turkey; the two allies together fell upon the
unfortunate cock, and killed him.


THE RUFFED GROUSE.

This bird is called _pheasant_ at the south, and _partridge_ in the
Eastern States.

The following incident in relation to it is extracted from the "Cabinet
of Natural History:" "I once started a hen pheasant with a single young
one, seemingly only a few days old; there might have been more, but I
perceived only this one. The mother fluttered before me for a moment;
but, suddenly darting towards the young one, she seized it in her bill,
and flew off along the surface through the woods, with great steadiness
and rapidity, till she was beyond my sight. I made a very active and
close search for others, but did not find any."


THE PIGEON.

This genus includes a great variety of doves and pigeons, all of which
are remarkable for their tenderness and constancy.

The PASSENGER PIGEON.--Audubon gives us the following description of a
forest in Ohio, which was the resort of the passenger pigeon: "Every
thing proved to me that the number of birds resorting to this place
must be immense beyond conception. As the period of their arrival
approached, a great number of persons collected, and prepared to
receive them. Some were furnished with iron pots, containing brimstone;
others with torches of pine-knots; many with poles, and the rest with
guns. Two farmers had driven upwards of two hundred hogs more than a
hundred miles, to be fattened upon the devoted pigeons! The sun was
lost to our view, yet not a pigeon had arrived. Every thing was ready,
and all eyes were gazing on the clear sky, when suddenly there burst
forth a general cry of 'Here they come!' The noise that they made,
though far distant, reminded me of a hard gale at sea through the
rigging of a close-reefed vessel. As the birds arrived, and passed over
me, I felt a current of air that surprised me. Thousands were soon
knocked down by the pole-men. The birds continued to pour in. The fires
were lighted, and a magnificent as well as terrifying sight presented
itself. Pigeons, arriving in thousands, alighted every where, one over
another, until solid masses as large as hogsheads were formed on the
branches all around. It was a scene of uproar and confusion. I found it
quite useless to speak, or even to shout, to those persons nearest to
me. This uproar continued all night. Towards day the pigeons began to
move off, and at sunrise, all that could fly had disappeared: the dead
and the dying were then picked up and piled in heaps, while the hogs
were let loose to feed on the remainder."

MUSICAL PIGEON.--Bertoni, a famous instructor in music, while residing
in Venice, took a pigeon for his companion, and, being very fond of
birds, made a great pet of it. The pigeon, by being constantly in his
master's company, obtained so perfect an ear for music, that no one who
saw his behavior could doubt for a moment the pleasure it took in
hearing his master play and sing.

CARRIER PIGEON.--Some years ago, two persons arrived in London, from
Antwerp, with 110 pigeons, to be thrown off there for the purpose of
ascertaining whether they would find their way back, and if so, in what
time they would perform the journey. The pigeons were contained in
eight enclosures, constructed of wire and canvass, and capable of
admitting a sufficiency of air to the birds, and at the top of each was
a trap door of tin. The baskets were all placed side by side, and at a
given signal, on Monday morning at eight o'clock, the doors were all
lifted up, and out rushed all the pigeons at the same instant. They
rose in a flock, and bent their way immediately in the direction of
home. The men set off on foot shortly after, with certificates of the
hour of departure. Most of the pigeons reached Antwerp the same day,
the swiftest bird having arrived there in five hours and a half: the
distance he flew was 186 miles!




ORDER V.

STILTED OR LONG-LEGGED BIRDS.


This order includes a number of remarkable birds, some of great size.
Most of them live on fish; while others eat grain and insects.


THE ADJUTANT, OR MARABOO CRANE.

Of this enormous bird we have the following account: A young one, about
five feet high, was taken and tamed at Sierra Leone. It was fed in the
large dining-hall, and at dinner-time always took its place behind its
master's chair--frequently before the guests entered. The servants were
obliged to watch their provisions narrowly, and defend them from the
crane by means of switches; but notwithstanding all their precaution,
it would frequently snatch something or other, and once purloined a
whole boiled fowl, which it swallowed in an instant. When threatened
with punishment, it would open its enormous bill, and roar like a bear
or tiger. It swallowed every thing whole, and on one occasion took, at
one mouthful, a leg of mutton weighing five or six pounds.


THE STORK.

A traveller in Russia tells us the following curious story: He was one
evening riding near a village, when he saw a number of people in a
field assembled round some object. He went to the spot, and saw two
storks lying dead upon the ground. One of the bystanders said that the
storks had a nest in the field, and that, not long before, the hen
bird, who was sitting, left the nest in search of food. During her
absence, a species of hawk very common in the country, seeing the eggs
unprotected, pounced upon them and sucked them. A short time after
this, the male bird, who had been away for food, returned, and finding
the eggs destroyed, he threw himself down upon the shells, and gave way
to every demonstration of grief.

In the mean time, the female returned, and as soon as he observed her,
as if to reproach her for leaving the nest, he ran up and attacked her
with his beak, and, seizing her between his claws, soared up with her
to a great height. He then compressed his own wings, and both falling
to the ground together, were instantly killed!

The Penny Magazine gives us the following story: "On the day of the
memorable battle of Friedland, a farm in the neighborhood of the city
was set on fire by the falling of a bomb. The conflagration spread to
an old tree in which a couple of storks had built their nest. The
mother would not leave this until it was completely devoured by flames.
She then flew up perpendicularly, and dashed down into the midst of the
fire, as if endeavoring to rescue her precious charge from destruction.
At last, enveloped in fire and smoke, she fell into the midst of the
blazing embers, and perished."


THE HERON.

In Westmoreland, England, there were, some years ago, two groves
adjoining a park, one of which, for many years, had been the resort of
a number of herons; the other was occupied by rooks. At length, the
trees tenanted by the herons, consisting of some fine old oaks, were
cut down in the spring of 1775, and the young ones had perished by the
fall of the timber. The parent birds immediately set about preparing
new habitations to breed again; but not finding any other in the
neighborhood high enough for them, they determined to effect a
settlement in the rookery. The rooks made an obstinate resistance; but
after a very violent contest, in which the herons finally triumphed,
they built their nests and reared their young. The next season, the
same contest took place; but victory declared, as before, for the
herons. After this, peace was agreed upon, and they lived together in
harmony in different parts of the same grove.


THE FLAMINGO.

During the French revolutionary war, when the English were expected to
make a descent upon St. Domingo, a negro, having perceived, at the
distance of some miles, in the direction of the sea, a long file of
flamingoes, ranked up and priming their wings, forthwith magnified them
into an army of English soldiers; their long necks were mistaken for
shouldered muskets, and their scarlet plumage suggested the idea of a
military costume. The poor fellow accordingly started off to Gonalves,
running through the streets, and vociferating that the English were
come! Upon this alarm, the commandant of the garrison instantly sounded
the tocsin, doubled the guards, and sent out a body of men to
reconnoitre the invaders; but he soon found, by means of his glass,
that it was only a troop of red flamingoes, and the corps of
observation marched back to the garrison, rejoicing at their bloodless
expedition.




ORDER VI.

PALMIPEDES,

WEB-FOOTED BIRDS.


THE GULL.

Mr. Scott, of Benholm, near Montrose, many years ago caught a sea-gull,
whose wings he cut, and put it into a walled garden, for the purpose of
destroying slugs, of which these birds are very fond. It throve
remarkably well in this situation, and remained about the place for
several years. The servants were much attached to this animal, and it
became so familiar that it came, at their call, to the kitchen door to
be fed, and answered to the name of Willie. At length it became so
domesticated, that no pains were taken to keep its wings cut; and
having at last acquired their full plume, it flew away, and joined the
other gulls on the beach, occasionally paying a visit to its old
quarters. At the time the gulls annually leave that part of the coast,
Willie also took his departure along with them, to the no small regret
of the family, who were much attached to him. Next season, however,
Willie again made his appearance, and visited the delighted family of
Mr. Scott with his wonted familiarity. They took care to feed him well,
to induce him, if possible, to become a permanent resident. But all
would not do, for he annually left Benholm. This practice he regularly
continued, for the extraordinary length of _forty years_, without
intermission, and seemed to have much pleasure in this friendly
intercourse. While he remained on that part of the coast, he usually
paid daily visits to his friends at Benholm, answered to his name, and
even fed out of their hands.

One year the gulls appeared on the coast, at their ordinary time; but
Willie did not, as was usual, pay his respects immediately on reaching
that neighborhood--from which they concluded that their favorite
visitant was numbered with the dead, which caused them much sorrow.
About ten days after, during breakfast, a servant entered the room
exclaiming that Willie had returned. The overjoyed family, one and all
of them, ran out to welcome Willie; an abundant supply of food was set
before him, and he partook of it with his former frankness, and was as
tame as a domestic fowl. In about two years afterwards, this bird
disappeared forever. The above facts are confirmatory of the great age
which the gull has been said to attain.


THE CORMORANT.

It is well known that this bird is taught by the Chinese to fish for
them. A gentleman of Scotland some years ago obtained two young ones,
which he succeeded in domesticating. They soon learned to fish on their
own account, and when satisfied, would amuse themselves by quitting and
retaking their prey. They sometimes remained for a whole day on board
of ships when they were kindly treated, and when these sailed, they
would accompany their friends to sea for a few miles. They were very
familiar, but would not submit to be teased. When shot at, they always
flew to the first person they saw belonging to their master's family,
for protection. Their owner had their heads painted white, in order to
distinguish them from the wild ones with whom they frequently
associated.


THE SWAN.

At Abbotsbury, in Dorsetshire, there was formerly a noble swannery, the
property of the Earl of Ilchester, where six or seven hundred were
kept; but from the mansion being almost deserted by the family, this
collection has of late years been much diminished.

A female swan, while in the act of sitting, observed a fox swimming
towards her from the opposite shore. She instantly darted into the
water, and having kept him at bay for a considerable time with her
wings, at last succeeded in drowning him; after which, in the sight of
several persons, she returned in triumph. This circumstance took place
at Pensy, in Buckinghamshire.


THE GOOSE.

_Miscellaneous Anecdotes._--"An old goose," says an English writer,
"that had been for a fortnight sitting in a farmer's kitchen, was
perceived on a sudden to be taken violently ill. She soon after left
her nest, and repaired to an outhouse, where there was a young goose,
which she brought into the kitchen. The young one immediately scrabbled
into the old one's nest, sat, hatched, and afterwards brought up, the
young goslings as her own. The old goose, as soon as the young one had
taken her place, sat down by the side of the nest, and shortly
afterwards died. As the young goose had never been in the habit of
entering the kitchen before, it is supposed that she had in some way
received information of the wants of the sick goose, which she
accordingly administered to in the best way she could."

An English gentleman had some years ago a Canadian goose, which
attached itself to a house dog. Whenever he barked, she cackled, ran at
the person the dog barked at, and bit his heels. She would not go to
roost at night with the other geese, but remained near the kennel,
which, however, she never entered, except in rainy weather. When the
dog went to the village, the goose always accompanied him, contriving
to keep pace with him by the assistance of her wings; and in this way
she followed him all over the parish. This extraordinary affection is
supposed to have originated in the dog having rescued her from a foe in
the very moment of distress.

Captain L., of New Jersey, while lying at anchor with his schooner off
Poole's Island, in the Chesapeake Bay, observed a wild goose, which had
been wounded, attempt to fly from the top of a hill to the water; but
being unable to reach its place of destination, it alighted about
midway down the hill, where some cattle were grazing; one of which,
seeing the stranger, walked up, as is commonly the case, to smell it.
The goose, not fancying this kind of introduction, seized the ox by the
nose with so much firmness as to set the creature bellowing; and he
actually ran off a considerable distance before he could disengage the
goose from its hold.




CLASS III. REPTILIA ... REPTILES.


This is a class of animals between birds and fishes, generally crawling
or swimming, of a cold temperature, sluggish habits, slow digestion,
and obtuse senses. They include serpents, lizards, tortoises, frogs,
toads, salamanders, the proteus and siren. The reptilia are divided
into four orders, the division being founded upon the difference in the
quantity of their respiration, and the diversity of their organs of
motion.




ORDER I.

CHELONIA,

TORTOISE.


These animals are of various sizes, some living on the land, and some
on the sea. They are remarkable for longevity. Mr. Murray says, "The
size to which this creature occasionally attains is quite monstrous. I
remember, some years ago, to have seen one, then semi-torpid, exhibited
near Exeter 'Change, London, which weighed several hundred weight. Its
shell was proportionably thick, and its other dimensions bore a
corresponding ratio. It was stated to be about _eight hundred_ years
old."




ORDER II.

SAURIA,

LIZARDS.


The more formidable species of this tribe are inhabitants of the warmer
countries of the globe. The larger kinds prey upon animals, the smaller
upon insects.


THE CROCODILE.

This animal is found on the banks of the Nile, Niger, and Ganges.

In crossing the Ba-Woolima, Mungo Park's attendant, Isaaco, met with a
strange and nearly fatal adventure. In attempting to drive six asses
across the river, just as he had reached the middle, a crocodile rose
close to him, and instantly seizing him by the left thigh, pulled him
under water. With wonderful presence of mind, he felt the head of the
animal, and thrust his finger into its eye. This forced it to quit its
hold: it soon, however, returned to the charge, and, seizing him by the
other thigh, again pulled him under water. Isaaco had recourse to the
same expedient, and thrust his fingers a second time into its eyes with
such force, that it again quitted him, rose to the surface, floundered
about as if stupid, and then swam down the stream. Isaaco, in the mean
time, reached the bank of the river, bleeding very much--the wound in
his left thigh being four inches long, that on the right somewhat less,
but very deep, besides several single teeth-marks on his back. In six
days, however, he recovered so as to be able to travel.

At Chantilly, in France, there was, in the year 1828, a crocodile so
perfectly tame and well-disposed, that he was caressed with impunity by
the keeper, who endeavored, although not always with success, to induce
visitors to follow his example. He never attempted to bite any one, but
seemed pleased by being fondled.


THE ALLIGATOR.

This creature is similar in habits and appearance to the crocodile. It
is found only in America, and is most abundant in the tropical regions.
The anecdotes which display its ferocity are numerous; but we choose
one which exhibits it in a different character. Mr. Jesse had one which
he made so perfectly tame, that it followed him about the house like a
dog, scrambling up the stairs after him, and showing much affection and
docility. Its great favorite, however, was a cat; and the friendship
was mutual. When the cat was reposing herself before the fire, the
alligator would lay himself down, place his head upon the cat, and in
this attitude go to sleep. If the cat was absent, the alligator was
restless; but he always appeared happy when puss was near him. The only
instance in which he showed any ferocity was in attacking a fox, which
was tied up in the yard. Probably, however, the fox had resented some
playful advances which the other had made, and thus called forth the
anger of the alligator. In attacking the fox, he did not make use of
his mouth, but beat him with so much severity with his tail, that, had
not the chain which confined the fox broken, he would probably have
killed him. The alligator was fed on raw flesh, and sometimes with
milk, for which he showed great fondness. In cold weather, he was shut
up in a box, with wool in it; but having been forgotten one frosty
night, he was found dead in the morning.


THE SALAMANDER.

Recently, as David Virtue, a mason in Scotland, was dressing a heavy
barley millstone from a large block, after cutting away a part, he
found a lizard of this species imbedded in the stone. It was about an
inch and a quarter long, of a brownish-yellow color, and had a round
head, with bright, sparkling, projecting eyes. When first found, it was
apparently dead; but after being about five minutes exposed to the air,
it showed signs of life. It soon became lively, and ran about with much
celerity; and about half an hour after the discovery, was brushed off
the stone, and killed. When found, it was coiled up in a round cavity
of its own form, being an exact impression of the animal. There were
about fourteen feet of earth above the rock, and the block in which the
lizard was found was seven or eight feet in the rock; so that the whole
depth of the animal from the surface was twenty-one or twenty-two feet.
The stone had no fissure, was quite hard, and one of the best which is
got from the quarry of Cullaloe; the stone is reckoned one of the
hardest in Scotland.




ORDER III.

OPHIDIA,

SERPENTS.


This order of animals is greatly diversified in their size, color, and
qualities. Some are but five inches in length, and others reach the
enormous extent of thirty feet. Some are inoffensive, and others are in
the highest degree venomous. They are in general regarded with horror
by mankind, and a universal instinct seems to call upon us to destroy
them.

_Anecdotes._--Mr. Strohecker, of Pennsylvania, had a daughter three
years of age, who, for a number of successive days, was remarked to
leave home with a piece of bread in her hand, and go to a considerable
distance. The mother's attention was attracted by the circumstance, who
desired the father to follow the infant, and observe what she did with
the bread. On coming up to her, he found she was busy feeding several
snakes called bastard-rattlesnakes. He immediately took the infant
away, and proceeded to his house for his gun, and on returning killed
two of them at a shot, and another a few days afterwards. The child
called these reptiles, in the same manner as chickens are called; and
when her father told her she would certainly be bitten by them if she
attempted it again, she innocently replied, "No, father, they won't
bite me; they only eat the bread I give them."

It has been a common opinion that serpents possess a peculiar power of
fascination. This is probably a vulgar error; yet the following story
is told of the daughter of a Dutch farmer near Niagara. It was on a
warm summer day that she was sent to spread out wet clothes upon some
shrubbery near the house. Her mother conceived that she remained longer
than was necessary, and seeing her standing unoccupied at some
distance, she called to her several times, but no answer was returned.
On approaching, she found her daughter pale, motionless, and fixed in
an erect posture. The perspiration rolled down her brow, and her hands
were clinched convulsively. A large rattlesnake lay on a log opposite
the girl, waving his head from side to side, and kept his eyes
steadfastly fastened upon her. The mother instantly struck the snake
with a stick; and the moment he made off, the girl recovered herself,
and burst into tears, but was for some time so weak and agitated that
she could not walk home.




ORDER IV.

BATRACHEA,

THE FROG KIND.


THE FROG.

_A Thief._--A correspondent of the Penny Magazine, who lived close
to the outlet of a small lake, used to bestow a great deal of care and
attention upon the rearing of young ducklings; but, after all, he had
the mortification to find his efforts fruitless. The old ones would
hatch fine healthy broods; but as soon as they were strong enough to
waddle to a sedgy stream that issued from the adjoining lake, one or
two daily disappeared, to the gentleman's great annoyance. Having
suffered these continual depredations for two or three seasons, he one
day noticed a nice duckling gradually disappear under the water; but
judge of his surprise when he beheld a large bull-frog crawl out upon
the prostrate trunk of a tree, with the duckling's feet still
protruding from his capacious mouth! The mystery was thus solved; the
bull-frogs had swallowed all the young ducks!

_Curious._--Some years ago, the city of Metz was afflicted by one
among the seven plagues of Egypt, namely, frogs; certain streets were
filled with these animals, and no one was able to conjecture from
whence they came, until it was explained by a dealer in frogs applying
to the tribunals for the recovery of his property. He had shut up about
six thousand frogs, designed for food, in a particular place belonging
to the fish-market, where they were discovered by some children, who
took part away to sell, and on leaving the troughs in the fish-market,
forgot to close them. Profiting by the opening thus left, the frogs
began to spread themselves in various parts, and even got into some of
the neighboring houses, whose inhabitants found much difficulty in
ejecting the unwelcome intruders.

_An Escape._--A butcher in Glasgow found an ordinary-sized living frog
in the stomach of a cow, which he had just killed. When laid down, it
was full of spirit, and leaped about the slaughter-house, to the
astonishment of a considerable crowd. The cow was killed between three
and four o'clock in the afternoon; it was supposed she had swallowed
the frog when drinking.


THE TOAD.

Not the least wonderful part of the history of the toad is the
circumstance of its being frequently found in the bed of solid rocks,
and the internal cavities of trees.

_Anecdotes._--We find it mentioned in the "Edinburgh Philosophical
Journal," that "a specimen of a toad, which was taken alive from the
centre of a solid mass of stone, has been sent to the College Museum of
Edinburgh by Lord Duncan." It is mentioned, in the "Transactions of the
Academy of Sciences," at Paris, that a live toad was found in the
centre of an elm-tree, and another in an oak. Both trees were quite
sound, and in a healthy condition. To these facts we may add another:
It is related by Sir Thomas Dick Lauder, who is a close observer of
nature, that, on his estate in East Lothian, a large toad was found in
the heart of a smooth, straight beech-tree, at the height of thirty
feet from the ground, where it was confined in a circular hole.

A gentleman who resided at Keswick, England, one evening in the latter
end of July, observed a rustling among the strawberries in his garden,
and on examining what it was, found that a toad had just seized a
field-mouse, which had got on the toad's back, scratching and biting to
get released, but in vain. The toad kept his hold, and, as the strength
of the mouse failed, he gradually drew the unfortunate little animal
into his mouth, and gorged him.




CLASS IV. PISCES ... FISHES.


Fishes are extremely numerous in species, and many of them are little
known. They are found in every ocean, sea, lake, or river,--under the
dreary skies of the poles, and the burning latitude of the tropics.
Being the tenants of an element which excludes them from the familiar
observation of man, we have fewer anecdotes of them than of those
classes which we have already noticed. We shall therefore only attempt
to present a few of the most striking that have come to our notice.


THE MACKEREL.

The mackerel is one of the most voracious of all fishes; and when they
get among a shoal of herrings, they make such havoc as frequently to
drive it off the coast. Pontoppidan informs us that a sailor, belonging
to a ship lying in a harbor of Norway, went into the water to wash
himself, when he was suddenly missed by his companions. In the course
of a few minutes, however, he was seen on the surface with vast numbers
of mackerels fastened to him. The people went to his assistance in a
boat, and tore the fishes from him; but it was too late; for he very
shortly afterwards expired from the effects of the wounds he had
received, and from the loss of blood.


THE SWORD-FISH.

The extraordinary power of this fish is shown by the following
statement, from the Penny Magazine: "In repairing his Britannic
majesty's ship Leopard, in 1725, on her return from the coast of
Guinea, a sword of this fish was found to have gone through the
sheathing one inch, next through a three-inch plank, and, beyond that,
four inches and a half in the firm timber. It was the opinion of
mechanics that it would require nine strokes of a hammer weighing
twenty-five pounds to drive an iron bolt, of similar size and form, to
the same depth in the hull; yet this was accomplished by a single
thrust."


THE PIKE.

_Anecdotes._--The rapacity of this fish is notorious. Jesse says,
"Out of eight hundred gudgeons, which were brought to me by a Thames
fisherman, and which I saw counted into the reservoir,--some few of
which, however, died,--there were scarcely any to be seen at the end
of three weeks. Indeed, the appetite of one of my pike was almost
insatiable. One morning, I threw to him, one after the other, five
roach, each about four inches in length. He swallowed four of them,
and kept the fifth in his mouth for about a quarter of an hour, when
it also disappeared."

The pike is an animal of extraordinary boldness. A few years ago, the
head keeper of Richmond Park was washing his hands at the side of a
boat, in the great pond, when a pike made a dart at one of his hands,
which the keeper suddenly withdrew, otherwise he would have received a
severe snap.

Mr. Jesse says, "Fish appear to be capable of entertaining affection
for each other. I once caught a female pike during the spawning season,
and nothing could drive the male away from the spot at which the female
disappeared, whom he had followed to the very edge of the water. A
person who had kept two small fish together in a glass, gave one of
them away; the other refused to eat, and showed evident symptoms of
unhappiness, till his companion was restored to him."

In the year 1497, a pike was caught, in standing water, at Heilbronn,
on the Neckar, which had a copper ring round its head; the ring bore
the following inscription in Greek: "I am the first fish that was
launched into this pond, and was thrown in by Frederick the Second,
emperor of the Romans, on the 5th of October, 1230." It appeared,
therefore, that the pike was two hundred and fifty-seven years old when
thus caught; it weighed three hundred and fifty pounds; and an exact
representation of it exists to this day upon one of the gates of
Heilbronn.


THE GOLDEN CARP.

This beautiful fish was first introduced into England about the year
1691. It is a native of China, where they are very common in ponds.
They are, however, very delicate, and unable to stand the powerful rays
of the sun; on which account, in each of the ponds where they are kept,
earthenware basins, with holes in them, are placed upside down, so that
the fishes may retire under them for shade. In China these fish are
taught to rise to the surface of the water, to be fed, at the sound of
a bell. In very cold weather, they are frequently taken into the house,
to prevent them from being frozen.

There are several varieties of this beautiful fish,--some of them
appearing all speckled over with golden dust; others are pure silvery
white; some are spotted with red and white; and a fourth variety is
black and white, spotted.

Many of these, of a large size, may be seen in the ponds at the royal
gardens of the Tuileries, at Paris. They are perfectly tame, and follow
individuals round the ponds in hopes of being fed.


THE SALMON.

Some years ago, a herdsman, on a very sultry day in July, while looking
for a missing sheep, observed an eagle posted on a bank that overhung a
pool. Presently the bird stooped and seized a salmon, and a violent
struggle ensued: when the herdsman reached the spot, he found the eagle
pulled under water by the strength of the fish; and the calmness of the
day, joined to his drenched plumage, rendered him unable to extricate
himself. With a stone, the peasant broke the eagle's pinion, and
separated the spoiler from his victim, which was dying in his grasp.


THE HERRING.

About fifty years ago, the shoals of herrings came into Loch Urn,
Scotland, in such amazing quantities, that, from the narrows to the
head, about two miles, it was quite full. So many of them were forced
ashore by the pressure, that the beach, for four miles round the head,
was covered with them from six to eighteen inches deep; and the ground
under water, as far as could be seen, was in the same condition.
Indeed, so dense and forcible was the shoal, as to carry before it
every other kind of fish; even ground-fish, skate, flounders, and
plaice, were driven on shore with the force of the herrings, and
perished there.

It is a curious fact, that herrings die the moment they are taken out
of the water; whence originated the adage, which is much used, _as
dead as a herring_.


THE SHARK.

This formidable animal is the dread of mankind in the seas where it is
found. There is no safety in bathing where this monster abounds.

The late Sir Brooke Watson was at one time swimming at a little
distance from a ship, when he observed a shark approaching towards him.
Struck with terror at its appearance, he immediately cried out for
assistance. A rope was instantly thrown out for him; and even while the
men were in the act of pulling him up the ship's side, the shark darted
after him, and at a single snap derived him of one leg.

In the West Indies, the negroes have frequently the hardihood to engage
the shark in single combat, by diving beneath him, and, in ascending,
stab him before he sees where they are. In these combats they
frequently conquer this formidable creature; and thus, through courage
and tactics, overcome his great strength and ferocity.




INVERTEBRATA.

We come now to the second grand division of the animal kingdom--the
Invertebrata Animals--those which, instead of an internal skeleton,
have, for the most part, an external shell, or framework, by means of
which the fleshy parts are sustained.




CLASS I. MOLLUSCA ... SOFT ANIMALS.


THE SQUID.

There is a singular genus of animals, called _Sepia_, of which the
cuttle-fish is a familiar example. Some of them are of great size,
having arms nearly thirty feet in length. We are told of a Sardinian
captain, who, while bathing, felt one of his feet in the grasp of a
squid; he instantly tried to disengage himself with his other foot, but
this limb was immediately seized by another of the monster's arms. He
then with his hands endeavored to free himself, but these also, in
succession, were firmly grasped by the creature, and the poor man was
shortly after found drowned, with all his limbs strongly bound together
by the arms and legs of the fish; and it is extraordinary that, where
this happened, the water was scarcely four feet deep.

Mr. Beale gives us the following narrative: "While upon the Bonni
Islands, searching for shells, I one day saw, towards the surf, a most
extraordinary-looking animal, crawling upon the beach. It was creeping
on eight soft and flexible legs, and, on seeing me, made every effort
to escape. To prevent this, I pressed one of its legs with my foot; but
it quickly liberated the member. I then laid hold of it with my hand,
and gave it a powerful jerk, which it resisted by clinging with its
suckers to the rock; but the moment after, the apparently enraged
animal let go its hold, and sprang upon my arm, which I had previously
bared to the shoulder, and clinging to it with great force, endeavored
to get its beak between its arms in a position to bite.

"A sensation of horror pervaded my whole frame. Its cold, slimy grasp
was extremely sickening, and I immediately called to the captain, who
accompanied me, and who was at a little distance, to come and release
me from my disgusting assailant. He came and set me free, by cutting my
tormentor apart with his boat-knife. It must have measured four feet
across its extended arms, while its body was not larger than a clinched
hand. This was of that species called by whalers 'rock squid.'"


THE NAUTILUS.

In some places, where the sea is not agitated by winds, great numbers
of these singular creatures may occasionally be seen sailing and
sporting about. Le Vaillant observed several of them on the sea near
the Cape of Good Hope; and, as he was desirous of obtaining perfect
specimens of the shells, he sent some of his people into the water to
catch them; but when the men had got their hands within a certain
distance, they always instantly sank, and, with all the art that could
be employed, they were not able to lay hold of a single one. The
instinct of the animal showed itself superior to all their subtlety;
and when their disappointed master called them away from their
attempts, they expressed themselves not a little chagrined at being
outwitted by a shell-fish.


THE SNAIL.

M. de Martens states that the annual export of snails from Ulm, by the
Danube, for the purpose of being used as food in the season of Lent by
the convents of Austria, amounted formerly to ten millions of these
animals. They were fattened in the gardens in the neighborhood.

Mr. Rowe gives us the following account: "I was at Mr. Haddock's," says
he, "in Kent, and was making a little shell-work tower, to stand on a
cabinet in a long gallery. Sea-shells running short before I had
finished, I recollected having seen some pretty large snails on the
chalk hills, and we all went out one evening to pick up some. On our
return, I procured a large China basin, and putting a handful or two of
them into it, filled it up with boiling water. I poured off the first
water, and filled the bowl again. I then carried it into a summer-house
in the garden. Next morning, how great was my surprise, on entering the
summer-house, to find the poor snails crawling about, some on the edge
of the basin, some tumbling over, some on the table, and one or two
actually eating paste that was to stick them on! I picked up every
snail carefully, and carried them into a field, where I make no doubt
that they perfectly recovered from their scalding."


THE OYSTER.

A gentleman who lived at Salisbury, England, used to keep a pet oyster,
of the largest and finest breed. He fed it on oatmeal, for which it
regularly opened its shell. It also proved itself an excellent mouser,
having killed five mice, by crushing the heads of such as, tempted by
the meal, had the audacity to intrude their noses within its bivalvular
clutches.

A great number of large creeks and rivers wander through the marshes on
the seaboard of Georgia. Whenever the tide bends forcibly against the
land, the effects are counteracted by the walls of living oysters which
grow upon each other from the beds of the rivers to the very verge of
the banks. They are in such abundance, that a vessel of a hundred tons
might load herself in three times her length. Bunches of them
sufficient to fill a bushel are found matted as it were together, and
the neighboring inhabitants and laborers light fires upon the marsh
grass, roll a bunch of oysters upon it, and then eat them.


THE SCALLOP.

The GREAT SCALLOP has the power of progressive motion upon the land,
and likewise of swimming on the surface of the water. When it happens
to be deserted by the tide, it opens its shell to the full extent, then
shuts it with a sudden jerk, often rising five or six inches from the
ground. In this manner, it tumbles forward until it regains the water.

When the sea is calm, troops of little fleets of scallops, it is said,
are sometimes to be observed swimming on the waves. They elevate one
valve above the top of the water, which is used as a kind of sail,
while they float on the other, which remains on the surface.




CLASS II. ARTICULATA  ... JOINTED ANIMALS.


These animals have not an internal skeleton, like the vertebrata; nor
are they wholly destitute of a skeleton, as are the mollusca. The hard
parts are external, and the muscles are internal. The class includes
red-blooded worms, the _crustacea_, spiders, and insects.


THE LEECH.

If you ever pass through La Brienne, in France, you will see a man
pale, and straight-haired, with a woollen cap on his head, and his legs
and arms naked. He walks along the borders of a marsh, among the spots
left dry by the surrounding waters, but particularly wherever the
vegetation seems to present the subjacent soil undisturbed. This man is
a leech-fisher. To see him at a distance,--his hollow aspect, livid
lips, and singular gestures,--you would take him for a patient who had
left his sick bed in a fit of delirium. If you observe him every now
and then raising his legs, and examining them one after another, you
might suppose him a fool; but he is an intelligent leech-fisher. The
leeches attach themselves to his legs and feet, and as he moves along
their haunts, he feels them bite, and gathers them as they cluster
round the roots of the bulrushes and sea-weeds.


THE CRAB.

The following incident is from a late English journal: "In the year
1812, a sailor, in company with several persons, at Sunderland,
perceived a crab which had wandered to the distance of about three
yards from the water-side. An old rat, on the look-out for food, sprang
from his lurking-place, and seized the crab, who, in return, raised his
forcep-claws, and laid fast hold of the assailant's nose, who hastily
retired, squeaking a doleful chant, and much surprised, no doubt, at
the reception he had met with.

"The crab retreated as fast as he could towards his own element; but
after a short space, the rat renewed the contest, and experienced a
second rude embrace from his antagonist. The rat again retreated, but
returned again to the attack. After the contest had lasted half an
hour, the crab, though much exhausted, had nearly reached the sea, when
the rat made a sudden spring, and capsized his antagonist; then, taking
advantage of this manoeuvre, like a successful general, seized the
crab by his hind leg. The crab, however, again made his escape in a
most mutilated condition; the rat, however, closely pursuing him, soon
dragged him back to his den, where he doubtless regaled his wife and
family with his hard-earned prey.

"In the year 1833, as a lady in England was in the act of dressing a
crab, she found in its stomach a half guinea, of the reign of George
III., worn very thin; but some of the letters were so entire as to
enable the reign to be traced."


THE SPIDER.

The celebrated Lewenhoek found by microscopic observation that the
threads of the minutest spiders, some of which are not larger than a
grain of sand, are so fine that it would take four millions of them to
make a thread as thick as a hair of his beard. In the early part of the
last century, M. Bon, of Languedoc, fabricated a pair of stockings and
a pair of gloves from the threads of spiders. They were nearly as
strong as silk, and of a beautiful gray color.

The animal ferocity of spiders makes it impossible to keep them
together. M. Bon distributed 4 or 5000 spiders into different cells,
putting in each cell about 200, and fed them with flies; but the large
ones soon devoured the small ones, and in a short time there were only
one or two large ones left in each cell.

To test the ingenuity of the spider, a gentleman frequently placed one
on a small upright stick, and surrounded the base with water. After
having reconnoitred, and discovered that the ordinary means of escape
were cut off, it ascended the stick, and, standing nearly on its head,
ejected its long web, which the wind soon carried to some contiguous
object: along this the sagacious insect effected its escape--not,
however, until it had ascertained, by several exertions of its own
strength, that its web was securely attached at the end.


THE SCORPION.

This is one of the largest of the insect tribe, and is not less
terrible for its size than its malignity. Its sting, in some countries,
is fatal. Volchammer put one of these creatures, and a large spider,
into a glass vessel. The latter used all its efforts to entangle the
scorpion in its web, which it immediately began to spin; but the
scorpion stung its adversary to death; it then cut off all its legs,
and sucked out the internal parts at its leisure.

The same naturalist shut up a female scorpion with her young in a glass
case. She devoured all but one, which took refuge on the back of its
parent, and soon revenged the death of its brethren by killing the old
one in its turn.


THE DEATH-WATCH.

This insect makes a ticking noise by beating its head with great force
against whatever it happens to stand on. Two of them were kept in a box
by a gentleman for three weeks; and he found that, by imitating their
note by beating with the point of a pin or nail upon the table, the
insect would answer him as many times as he made the sound.


THE GLOWWORM.

The female of this insect is very luminous, and has no wings. The light
always becomes brighter when the worm is in motion, and it can withdraw
it when it pleases. When the light is most brilliant, it emits a
sensible heat. When a glowworm is put into a phial, and this is
immersed in water, a beautiful irradiation takes place. If the insect
be crushed, and the hands and face rubbed with it, they have a luminous
appearance, like that produced by phosphorus.


THE FIRE-FLY.

"I was in the habit," says a writer on the Island of Jamaica, "of
enclosing, every night, a dozen or more fire-flies under an inverted
glass tumbler on my bedroom table, the light of whose bodies enabled me
to read without difficulty. They are about the size of a bee, and
perfectly harmless. Their coming forth in more than usual numbers is
the certain harbinger of rain; and I have frequently, while travelling,
met them in such numbers that, be the night ever so dark, the path was
as visible as at noonday."


THE BEETLE.

The following account of the BURYING BEETLE is given by M. Gleditsch, a
foreign naturalist. He often remarked that dead moles, when laid upon
the ground, especially if upon loose earth, were almost sure to
disappear in the course of two or three days, often of twelve hours. To
ascertain the cause, he placed a mole upon one of the beds in his
garden. It had vanished by the third morning; and, on digging where it
had been laid, he found it buried to the depth of three inches, and
under it four beetles, which seemed to have been the agents in this
singular inhumation. To determine the point more clearly, he put four
of these insects into a glass vessel, half filled with earth, and
properly secured, and upon the surface of the earth, two frogs. In less
than twelve hours, one of the frogs was interred by two of the beetles;
the other two ran about the whole day, as if busied in measuring the
dimensions of the remaining corpse, which on the third day was also
found buried. He then introduced a dead linnet. A pair of the beetles
were soon engaged upon the bird. They began their operations by pushing
out the earth from under the body, so as to form a cavity for its
reception; and it was curious to see the efforts which the beetles
made, by dragging at the feathers of the bird from below, to pull it
into its grave. The male, having driven the female away, continued the
work alone for five hours. He lifted up the bird, changed its place,
turned it, and arranged it in the grave, and from time to time came out
of the hole, mounted upon it, and trod it under foot, and then retired
below, and pulled it down. At length, apparently wearied with this
uninterrupted labor, it came forth, and leaned its head upon the earth
beside the bird, without the smallest motion, as if to rest itself, for
a full hour, when it again crept under the earth. The next day, in the
morning, the bird was an inch and a half under ground, and the trench
remained open the whole day, the corpse seeming as if laid out upon a
bier, surrounded with a rampart of mould. In the evening, it had sunk
half an inch lower; and in another day, the work was completed, and the
bird covered. M. Gleditsch continued to add other small dead animals,
which were all sooner or later buried; and the result of his experiment
was, that in fifty days four beetles had interred, in the very small
space of earth allotted to them, twelve carcasses: viz., four frogs,
three small birds, two fishes, one mole, and two grasshoppers, besides
the entrails of a fish, and two morsels of the lungs of an ox.

The QUEEN BEETLE is about one inch and a quarter in length; she carries
by her side two brilliant lamps, which she lights up at pleasure with
the solar phosphorus furnished her by nature. These lamps do not flash
and glimmer like those of the fire-fly, but give as steady a light as
that of gas, exhibiting two glowing spheres as large as a minute pearl,
which affords light enough, in the darkest night, to enable one to read
by them. The queen beetle is found only in tropical climates.


THE EARWIG.

Baron de Geer, a famous Swedish naturalist, gives us the following:
"About the end of March I found an earwig brooding over her eggs in a
small cell, scooped out in a garden border. In order to watch her
proceedings, I removed the eggs into my study, placing them upon fresh
earth under a bell-glass. The careful mother soon scooped out a fresh
cell, and collected the scattered eggs with great care to the little
nest, placing herself over them, to prevent the too rapid evaporation
of the moisture. When the earth began to dry up, she dug the cell
gradually deeper, till at length she got almost out of view. At last,
the cell became too dry, and she removed the eggs to the edge of the
glass, where some of the moisture had condensed. Upon observing this, I
dropped some water into the abandoned cell, and the mother soon after
removed the eggs there. Her subsequent proceedings were no less
interesting; but I regret to add that, during my absence, the
bell-glass was removed, and the earwig escaped with her eggs."


THE CRICKET.

Mr. Southey describes the perilous situation of a ship sailing to
Brazil, which was saved from shipwreck by the singing of a ground
cricket. "Three days they stood towards land. A soldier, who had set
out in ill health, had brought a ground cricket with him from Cadiz,
thinking to be amused by the insect's voice; but it had been silent the
whole distance, to his no small disappointment. Now, on the fourth
morning, the _grillo_ had begun to ring its shrill rattle, scenting the
land. Such was the miserable watch that had been kept, that, upon
looking out at this warning, they perceived high rocks within bowshot,
against which, had it not been for the insect, they must inevitably
have been lost. They had just time to drop anchor. From hence they
coasted along, the grillo singing every night as if it had been on
shore, till they reached the Islands of St. Catalina."

In China, the people take as much pleasure in cricket fights as the
Spaniards do in bull fights. Two crickets are pitted against each
other, and crowds of people gather round, to witness the combat. The
insects rush at each other with great fury; and the spectators, high
and low, rich and poor, seem to experience the most lively sensations
of delight.


THE LOCUST.

In July, 1827, the Russian General Cobley had a grand battle with the
locusts, on his estate of Coblewka, along the borders of the Sea of
Oschakoff. The locusts were marching in twenty-four columns, and were
destroying all the crops. General Cobley collected the peasants on his
estate, and from all the neighboring country, amounting to five hundred
persons. They were armed with pitchforks, spades, drums, and bells;
and, thus equipped, they commenced their march against the invaders.
They soon compelled them to retreat, and pursued them incessantly
towards the sea, where they were forced to jump into the water, and
were drowned. Three days afterwards, the sea-shore was covered with the
dead locusts, cast up by the waves; the air was infected by a fetid
exhalation, and great numbers of poisoned fish were cast up by the
waves on the strand. It is probable that the fish had fed on the
locusts.


THE ANT.

_Anecdotes._--In tracing the designs of the cells and galleries, each
ant appears to follow its own fancy. A want of accordance must
therefore frequently take place at the point where their works join;
but they never appear to be embarrassed by any difficulties of this
kind. An instance is related, in which two opposite walls were made, of
such different elevations, that the ceiling of the one, if continued,
would not have reached above half way of the height of the other. An
experienced ant, arriving at the spot, seemed struck with the defect,
immediately destroyed the lower ceiling, built up the wall to the
proper height, and formed a new ceiling with the materials of the former.

In the "Transactions of the French Academy," an account is given of an
ant, that was taken from a hill, and thrown upon a heap of corn. It
seemed attentively to survey this treasure, and then hastened back to
its former abode, where it communicated intelligence of the land of
plenty; for an immense host of its brethren quickly made their
appearance, and commenced carrying off the grain.

M. Homberg informs us that, in Surinam, there is a species of ant
called by the natives the _visiting ant_. These animals march in large
troops, with the same order and precision as do a regularly-constituted
army. They are welcome visitors to the natives, on account of their
power of exterminating rats, mice, and other noxious animals, with
which that country abounds. No sooner do they appear, than all the
coffers, chests of drawers, and locked-up places in the house, are
thrown open for them, when they immediately commence their work of
destruction of animal life, as if commissioned by nature for that
purpose. The only regret of the natives is, that they pay their visits
but once in three or four years.

Two ants meeting on a path across a gravel-walk, one going to and the
other from the nest, stop, touch each other's antennæ, and appear to
hold a conversation. One would almost fancy that one was communicating
to the other the best place for foraging.


THE CATERPILLAR.

A curious species of manufacture was contrived by an officer of
engineers residing at Munich. It consisted of lace veils, with open
patterns on them, made entirely by caterpillars. Having made a paste of
the leaves of the plant on which the insect feeds, he spread it thinly
over a stone, or other flat substance, of the required size. He then,
with a camel's hair pencil dipped in olive oil, drew a pattern he
wished the insects to leave open. This stone was then placed in an
inclined position, and a number of caterpillars were placed at the
bottom. A peculiar species was chosen, which spins a strong web, and
the animals commenced at the bottom, eating and spinning their way up
to the top, carefully avoiding every part touched by the oil, but
devouring every other part of the paste. The extreme lightness of these
veils, combined with their strength, is surprising.


THE BUTTERFLY.

In June, 1826, a column of butterflies, from ten to fifteen feet broad,
was seen to pass over Neufchatel, in Switzerland; the passage lasted
upwards of two hours, without any interruption, from the moment when
the insects were observed.


THE MOTH.

A moth was once caught, at Arracan, which measured ten inches from the
tip of one wing to the tip of the other, both being variegated with the
brightest colors.


THE SILKWORM.

The great care bestowed upon this creature in China is shown in
the following extract from an old work: "The place where their
habitation is built must be retired, free from noisome smells,
cattle, and all noises; as a noisome smell, or the least fright,
makes great impressions upon so tender a breed; even the barking of
dogs, and the crowing of cocks are capable of putting them in disorder
when they are newly hatched. For the purpose of paying them every
attention, an affectionate mother is provided for their wants; she is
called _Isan-more_, mother of the worms. She takes possession of the
chamber, but not till she has washed herself, and put on clean clothes
which have not the least ill smell; she must not have eaten any thing
before, or have handled any wild succory, the smell of which is very
prejudicial; she must be clothed in a plain habit without any lining,
that she may be more sensible of the warmth of the place, and
accordingly increase or lessen the fire; but she must carefully avoid
making a smoke, or raising a dust, which would be very offensive to
these tender creatures, which must be carefully tended before the first
time of casting their slough."

During the first twenty-four hours of the silkworm's existence, the
patient Chinese feeds the objects of her care forty-eight times a day;
during the second or third day, thirty times; and so on, reducing the
number of meals as the worm grows older.


FLIES.

Sir Arthur Young thus speaks of flies in his "Travels through the South
of Europe:" "Flies form the most disagreeable circumstance in the
southern climates. They are the first torments in Spain, Italy, and the
olive districts of France. It is not that they bite, sting, or hurt;
but they buzz, tease, and worry: your mouth, eyes, ears, and nose, are
full of them; they swarm on every eatable. Fruit, sugar, milk, every
thing, is attacked by them in such myriads, that if they were not
driven away, by a person who has nothing else to do, to eat a meal is
impossible. If I farmed in these countries, I think I should manure
four or five acres of land a year with dead flies."




CLASS RADIATA ... RADIATED ANIMALS.


This class embraces those beings which are the lowest in the animal
kingdom--those which have the fewest and most imperfect senses. Indeed,
some of them so far resemble plants as to make the point of separation
between the animal and vegetable kingdoms almost a matter of
uncertainty. They are called _radiata_, because in most of them an
arrangement may be traced, in their formation, like that of rays
branching out from a centre. Among the creatures of this class are the
star-fish, polypus, sea-anemone, and infusoria.


POLYPI.

Captain Basil Hall makes some interesting remarks on the examination of
a coral-reef, which is the product of the marine polypi. He observes
that, during the different stages of the tide, the changes it undergoes
are truly surprising. When the tide has left it for some time, it
becomes dry, and appears to be a compact rock, exceedingly hard and
rugged; but as the tide rises, and the waves begin to wash over it, the
coral worms protrude themselves from holes which before were invisible.
These animals are of a great variety of shapes and size, and in such
prodigious numbers, that, in a short time, the whole surface of the
rock appears to be alive and in motion. The most common worm is in the
shape of a star, with arms from four to six inches long, which move in
every direction to catch food. Others are so sluggish that they may be
taken for pieces of rock, and are of a dark color; others are of a blue
or yellow color; while some resemble a lobster in shape.

The GREEN POLYPE, or hydra, is found in clear waters, and may generally
be seen in great plenty in small ditches and trenches of fields,
especially in the months of April and May. It affixes itself to the
under parts of leaves, and to the stalks of such vegetables as happen
to grow immersed in the same water. The animal consists of a long,
tubular body, the head of which is furnished with eight, and sometimes
ten long arms, or tentacula, that surround the mouth.

It is of an extremely predacious nature, and feeds on the various
species of small worms, and other water animals, that happen to
approach. When any animal of this kind passes near the polype, it
suddenly catches it with its arms, and, dragging it to its mouth,
swallows it by degrees, much in the same manner as a snake swallows a
frog. Two of them may sometimes be seen in the act of seizing the same
worm at different ends, and dragging it in opposite directions with
great force.

When the mouths of both are thus joined together upon one common prey,
the largest polype gapes and swallows his antagonist; but, what is more
wonderful, the animal thus swallowed seems to be rather a gainer by the
misfortune. After it has lain in the conqueror's body for about an
hour, it issues unhurt, and often in possession of the prey that had
been the original cause of contention. The remains of the animals on
which the polype feeds are evacuated at the mouth the only opening in
the body. It is capable of swallowing a worm of thrice its own size:
this circumstance, though it may appear incredible, is easily
understood, when we consider that the body of the polype is extremely
extensile, and is dilated, on such occasions, to a surprising degree.

This species are multiplied, for the most part, by a process resembling
vegetation--one or two, or even more young ones emerging gradually from
the sides of the parent animal; and these young are frequently again
prolific before they drop off; so that it is no uncommon thing to see
two or three generations at once on the same polype.